The TADS 3 Unix version is distributed separately from this generic
distribution, which is designed as a porting kit not tied to any
single platform.

The official Unix port is FrobTADS by Nikos Chantziaras.  You can find
information on FrobTADS, and the latest source distribution, at

   http://www.tads.org/frobtads.htm

Updates to FrobTADS sometimes take a little while to catch up to the
latest porting kit.  If you can't find a FrobTADS version matching the
latest generic release, it's often relatively simple to create your
own "merged" version of the latest update.  The generic code is
designed to be 100% portable and require absolutely no manual editing
when porting to Unix (or anywhere else).  All of the port-specific
code is isolated in a separate "unix/" subdirectory.  The interface
between the generic code and the Unix code rarely changes, so you can
*usually* combine the latest generic code with the most recent
FrobTADS "unix/" portion, and get a working build from the result.  To
do this, simply take the current generic source files and COPY THEM
OVER the corresponding files from the FrobTADS distribution, then run
the FrobTADS build script as usual.  In most cases this will compile
and run correctly.  Occasionally, the interface between the generic
and port-specific code changes slightly, requiring some extra work to
update the unix/ code; when this happens, the build usually fails with
compiler errors due to the mismatched interfaces.  If you get any
errors building a merged version, you'll probably need to contact
Nikos for help updating the unix/ sources.

