TILL DEATH MAKES A MONK-FISH OUT OF ME
Release 1.1 / Serial number 021103 / TADS 2.56
All text will now be saved to the script file.  Type UNSCRIPT at any time to
discontinue scripting.

>help
Welcome to TILL DEATH MAKES A MONK-FISH OUT OF ME.  Below is a brief list of
some of the special commands that this game recognizes.  If you're new to
interactive fiction, please type INSTRUCTIONS for a detailed introduction to
text adventures.

The game was coded and primarily tested by the authors using HTML TADS --
though testing was performed on other platforms.

   SAVE        - Save the current game position
   RESTORE     - Restore a saved game position
   UNDO        - Take back the previous turn
   QUIT        - End the game

   CREDITS     - Show the game's credits
   COPYRIGHT   - Copyright information
   ABOUT       - Show some background information about the game
   VERSION     - Show the current version of the game
   RELEASE     - Show release history of game
   HINT        - Hint system
   REVIEW      - Perform a "LOOK" without affecting time or turn count
   WINNABLE    - Is the game still in a winnable state?

   SCRIPT      - Start recording a transcript of your moves to a file
   UNSCRIPT    - Stop recording the current transcript

   AMUSING     - A list of amusing things to try
   SPAG        - Reprint of the SPAG interview
   NOTES       - Collaboration emails between Jon and I

>review
(Review mode - time does not pass)

Inside the glass cylinder
   Cables feed away from the base of the glass to the bank of machinery
outside, around which the scientists huddle and confer.  Inside is your own
little fish-tank; there's a grille to put your feet on, and some machinery at
the top, and the Emergency Door Release Switch just about where your left hand
is.  They're all looking at you expectantly, perhaps waiting for a final speech
before the glass slides shut...

>talk
"Friends!  This is a momentous day!  I have prepared just a few words to be
said on this occasion, if you will bear with me.  There is a saying in my
country: he who eats of the plum tree must wonder why he ..."

The glass door slides quickly shut.  Your view of the scientists is somewhat
obscured by a note, taped to the inside.

>x note
(first taking the note)
"Well, Professor.  I suspect that from now on you will not prove a problem in
my life any more.  Your machine is under my control.  Shall we say: if you are
reading this, you are already dead."

"FIVE," booms the automated countdown voice.

>write in condensation
When typing or writing, you need to surround the target word in quotes; ie,
write "in".

>write "help"
(on the glass door)
You breathe on the glass door and a pool of condensation forms.  You write
"help".

Zak notices your message.  "I think he's talking to you, Dr. Kurner," he says. 
"Do you fancy lending a hand here?"

Outside all the scientists gather around the machinery, intent; tapping gauges
and nodding seriously.  All except Dr. Kurner, that is, who stands off to one
side, leaning heavily on a counter, staring at you.

"FOUR."  There's a slight snigger sound just at the end; you remember laughing
when you recorded that last week.

>write "kurner"
(on the glass door)
You write "kurner" instead.

"Hey - do you suppose it should be sparking like that?" Zak pipes up.  The
others tut and mutter.

"THREE."  Power begins to build.

The condensation on the glass door evaporates away.

>write "get me out"
[One word at a time please]

>write "redrum"
(on the glass door)
You breathe on the glass door and a pool of condensation forms.  Your previous
message "kurner" is now visible on the glass door.
You write "redrum" instead.

Zak notices your message.  "Hey, guys!  I'm guessing the problem's with the
Redrummation Mechanism!"  He winks at you.  "I learnt to read mirror writing in
the Army, you know."

"And then there's quite a bit of smoke too, isn't there?"

"TWO."  The cables on the floor wriggle like a squid.

>write xyzzy
When typing or writing, you need to surround the target word in quotes; ie,
write "xyzzy".

>write "xyzzy"
(on the glass door)
You write "xyzzy" instead.

"Maybe we should open it up and take a look?"

Dr. Kurner's attention is taken briefly by a school of fish passing by the
window.  No dedication, that man.

"ONE."  The coils at the top of the cylinder make a searing noise.

The condensation on the glass door evaporates away.

>l
Inside the glass cylinder
   Cables feed away from the base of the glass to the bank of machinery
outside, around which the scientists huddle and confer.  Inside is your own
little fish-tank; there's a grille to put your feet on, and some machinery at
the top, and the Emergency Door Release Switch just about where your left hand
is.  Their voices are muffled by the sealed glass cover.

"Anyone got a screwdriver?"  A few pat their pockets, and shrug.

"ZER-OH!"  The machine blasts a spurt of searing white light, as though your
head has come off.  The scientists outside barely seem to notice as they hunt
around for a coin to use in the screw-head.  Just as everything fades fuzzily
to black, you see Kurner stumble himself; then the world slides away...
Consciousness projection.  They'd not said it couldn't be done, but they had
said it was pretty unlikely.  They'd not said you were mad, but they had said
you were a little unusual, especially in your taste for sushi.  But you knew,
if anyone down in AtlantisLab needs anything, it's a holiday on the surface. 
Preferably a holiday as a twenty-two-year-old beach dweller.

Which is where you should be right now.  It feels colder than Hawaii should
this time of year.  You have a slight headache.  It's dark - so you open your
eyes.

>x foot
Tied tightly around your big toe is a tag.  It reads "John Doe."  Well, at
least you know what name you should answer to.

>remove tag
The toe tag is firmly attached.

>x me
Well, you seem to be naked.  This isn't your body either.  So everything's gone
to plan; except this doesn't look a lot like Hawaii.

Tied around your toe is a tag.

>get up
You stand up.

>x drawers
Your drawer is empty bar you, without even a sheet, and is labelled "John Doe"
at the front.  Looking around the others you see they're all labelled too -
there's Jeremy Doe off to one side; Jack Doe a few levels up, and the lowest
down you can read is Ms. Jenny Doe; who's about halfway to the ground.  The
surrounding drawers are all closed.

>i
You have nothing, absolutely nothing.  And you're cold as a consequence.

>open jenny
It's too far below for you to reach the handle.

>open jeremy
You slide open Jeremy's drawer.  He's inside, asleep.  He seems to have a peg-
leg.

>x peg-leg
The peg-leg is a tapering pole the length of one leg - more like a strut,
really, or half a flamingo.

>get leg
Taken.

>x jeremy
Jeremy is a large round-faced man, almost tubby, almost jovial in fact; apart
from the missing leg which adds a sinister touch to the proceedings.  He is
naked, and asleep, and looks very comfortable somehow.

>open jack
You stand up, and can easily reach Jack's drawer to slide it open.  Jack is
inside, but he appears to be asleep.

>x jack
You can only really make out his feet from down here, but they're very still,
so he must be fast asleep.

>wake jack
Don't wake him.  He looks like he's sleeping real deeply.

>x leg
The peg-leg is a tapering pole the length of one leg - more like a strut,
really, or half a flamingo.

>poke jeremy
Poking Jeremy Doe doesn't seem to have any effect.

>open jenny with peg-leg
Hooking the drawer with Jeremy's leg, you slide it open.  Poor old Jenny rolls
into view.  She looks positively knackered.

>d
The peg is far too cumbersome for this manoeuvre, so you first give it back to
good old Jeremy next door.

It's a fair way down - so first you get a solid grip on the edge of your
pallet, and then very gradually you slide off it.  There's a moment of flailing
before one toe meets her drawer.  Slight kick in the ribs - you freeze - but
she hasn't noticed.  Lucky.  Next foot, you can't see where it's going - oops,
that felt like her head; you feel certain her eyes must open any second, you'll
hear a complaint... no, no, somehow you get away with it.  The next time you
put it down it's more or less onto a clear space - bar some hair.

You let go of your drawer, now firmly astride Jenny's, and rub your hands. 
There's a deep shadowed groove in either palm from holding up your weight.

>x jenny
Jenny is a red-head, and a good-looking one too.

>x floor
It lies beneath you.

>kiss jenny
She'd no doubt appreciate it, of course, given that she's probably quite lonely
here.  But you refrain, on grounds of hygiene.

>down
You make the final fall to the ground.

Bottom of ramp
   This is a thin room then, between the wall of square drawers like a tiling
and another side of sheer metal, east and west respectively.  The floor is
split-level; from where you stand a ramp leads up and northward, and light from
a window there tumbles back down.

The drawers stop about five feet from ground-level; below are four
compartments.

There is a smooth hatch set into the south wall.

>x hatch
The hatch is about three foot square and flush with the floor.  Just by it is a
circular recess in the wall.

>x compartments
The names read: Kathleen, Victoria, Charlotte and Rosalind.

>x recess
It's roughly ten centimeters wide and deep, and is barely a meter off the
floor.

>look in recess
There is nothing in there.

>open kathleen
You slide open the compartment.  Inside is a trolley on which lies what is
clearly a corpse.  A transparent sheet covers face down to ankles, like it was
wrapped in cling-film.  Only the feet protrude - no tag.  A little horrified,
you slam the compartment closed.

>open Victoria
You quickly slide it open and shut -- same story as the other compartment.

>open charlotte
You quickly slide it open and shut -- same story as the other compartment.

>open rosalind
Inside the compartment is an empty trolley.

>x trolley
The trolley is inside the compartment.

>enter rosalind
You enter Rosalind's compartment.

Inside Rosalind's compartment
   A metal box, seven foot by four foot by five, arranged such that you could
lie down spread-eagled but stoop when you stand.  The west wall is missing.  In
the middle of the floor is a low flat trolley.

>west
Bottom of ramp
   This is a thin room then, between the wall of square drawers like a tiling
and another side of sheer metal, east and west respectively.  The floor is
split-level; from where you stand a ramp leads up and northward, and light from
a window there tumbles back down.

The drawers stop about five feet from ground-level; below are four
compartments.

There is a smooth hatch set into the south wall.

>n
Top of ramp
   This is a small stage, facing the stalls below down a ramp to the south,
with the royal boxes on the wall above, reserved it seems for the Doe family. 
You could take your bow, lit by the spotlight-glow through the window, or slip
offstage through the door just beside it.  Just left of the door is a small
device.

>x window
Across the glass in arcing letters is emblazoned:  "YRAUTROM" (though the R's
are a little strange).  Which is - you're quite sure - a place in Jordan; and
not a place in Hawaii.

It is bright in the corridor beyond, which smarts your eyes a little.

>x device
It's rectangular in shape and the words

** ERROR - Reset Required **

are printed on the tiny display.  Near the display is a button.

>push button
The display is cleared.

>x device
It's rectangular in shape and the words

SYSTEM - Active

are printed on the tiny display.  Near the display is a button.

At the bottom of the ramp, a robot appears through the hatch.

>s
Bottom of ramp
   This is a thin room then, between the wall of square drawers like a tiling
and another side of sheer metal, east and west respectively.  The floor is
split-level; from where you stand a ramp leads up and northward, and light from
a window there tumbles back down.

The drawers stop about five feet from ground-level; below are four
compartments.

There is a smooth hatch set into the south wall.

The robot - whose name appears to be Charlotte - rumbles up the ramp.

>e
You enter Rosalind's compartment.

Inside Rosalind's compartment
   A metal box, seven foot by four foot by five, arranged such that you could
lie down spread-eagled but stoop when you stand.  The west wall is missing.  In
the middle of the floor is a low flat trolley.

You hear the robot rumble out of the room outside.

>push trolley w
You push the trolley west.

Bottom of ramp
   This is a thin room then, between the wall of square drawers like a tiling
and another side of sheer metal, east and west respectively.  The floor is
split-level; from where you stand a ramp leads up and northward, and light from
a window there tumbles back down.

The drawers stop about five feet from ground-level; below are four
compartments.

There is a smooth hatch set into the south wall.

>get on trolley
You lie on the trolley.  It's cold.

>z
Time passes...

The hatch slides open long enough to spit out an orange robot.

>z
Time passes...

The robot positions its hexagonal tube by the trolley base with a muffled
clang.  It then powers away up the ramp, taking you with it.

Top of ramp, on the trolley
   This is a small stage, facing the stalls below down a ramp to the south,
with the royal boxes on the wall above, reserved it seems for the Doe family. 
Above you is a circular recess which is attached to a door.  Just left of the
door is a small device.

>z
Time passes...

The robot extends its hockey puck to an absurd length, reaching over the
trolley in front, to clip into the recess by the door.  The entrance slides
open, and it passes through, taking you with it.

Once in the corridor outside, you leap from the trolley before it, and the
robot, power away.

Corridor
   The corridor curves southeast to southwest, smooth metal walls low and
merging over your head.  Portholes splatter the north side like bullet-holes. 
A neon striplight runs the length of the corridor, lighting round the bends on
either hand, but right now your eyes are elsewhere - drawn to the window of the
room you have just left.

>x window
Here it is light, and there it is dark, and the glass acts as a mirror over
which your haggard face looms.  Only it is not your face.  It is the face of
Dr. Kurner.  A moment of staring is not enough, and you stare some more.  His
nose is your nose, his eyes, wet and squinting, are your eyes, they move as you
look over them.  You feel the tightness of his skin around your mouth and
cheekbones.  And worse: his face is framed, like an advert for a circus clown,
by an arcing title in large letters:

MORTUARY

Dead!  Ridiculous!  You're not dead!  You're standing upright.  Indeed, you're
breathing!  Aren't you?  There - you blow a long breath onto the glass, and a
pool of condensation smokes it over.  Alive.  You're alive.  And the sooner you
can get back to your machine and get yourself back into your own skin, the
better.

The robot pushes the trolley through the hatch in the southwest wall and
disappears.

>x portholes
Through the portholes swim a variety of underwater fish, lit in the half-glow
leaking from this dome.

The condensation on the window evaporates away.

>write "fuck" on window
You breathe on the window and a pool of condensation forms.  You write "fuck".

>x airlock
The airlock is circular, and damaged, with loose wiring hanging from the frame.
Set in the centre is the access mechanism, above is a small square spyhole. 
The sight beyond it is not good - you can make out twisted metal, bent panels
and wiring dripping from the ceiling like thick seaweed.  It appears not to
have been breached, though, as there is no water.  Something moves about
within: something large and orange.

The condensation on the window evaporates away.

>x mechanism
The mechanism is a large button marked ACCESS MECHANISM.  Its functions are
probably impaired by the sparking wiring hanging from the doorframe.

Through the door appears Victoria.

>x wiring
Two wires, crudely torn.  They spark occasionally - and are quite possibly
live!

The robot opens the hatch and rumbles through.

>connect wiring
Of course!  If you electrocute yourself - if you die - then your consciousness
will flip back to your original body!  It's bound to, after all!  And then your
problem is solved! ... Though you'll still have to help Dr. Kurner, somehow,
wherever he is.  Excellent idea.

You steel your courage, raise your hand... and have a moment of doubt.  Are you
sure you want to do this?

>yes
You close your eyes, and close your hand around the two ends of the wires. 
There is a terrible sparking as electricity leaps between them, flowing blue
lightning between your fingers, along your skin, down your palm!

However, due to Dr. Kurner's plastic prosthetic wrist replacement, it doesn't
get much further than that.  Your hand comes away, a little blackened.

The airlock door slides open.

>x hand
Your hand is the colour of your wife's baked potatoes.

>e
You slip through the airlock, into a mangle of metal.

Collapsed Corridor
   This was the eastern quadrant of the dome, but something has fallen away and
it is now a mangle of sheets of metal, intersecting skew-like.  About halfway
along, the roof is so low to the floor as to admit a mere few centimeters of
space between.  Wiring hangs from the neon light, but only the first segment is
still lit.  Where the corridor is most crumpled, one of the panels underfoot is
loose, rippling out from the floor.  A large orange robot is whirring back and
forth here.  It is Rosalind.

You hear the rumbling sound of another robot in the corridor.

>x panel
One of the panels of flooring at the southern end of this area has stuck up
from the floor, like the bone protruding from a broken leg; like a wafer in an
ice-cream.

From the corridor outside you hear the swish-snap of the robot hatch.

The robot moves to the middle of the corridor.

>look under panel
There's nothing under the panel.

Rosalind tries to go southward, but is stopped by the ceiling.

>x rosalind
She has not survived the impact, either.  Poor thing - you wonder how long she
has been trapped here, whirring forward along the corridor until she can go no
further, then back until caught in the pinched walls by the airlock.

Rosalind whirrs slowly across the corridor.

>get panel
The panel is heavy, and one end is stuck in a pinch of metal, but this acts
neatly as a hinge.  You prop it with a clang against the wall.

Beyond is a dark hole in the flooring.  Who knows how far a drop it might be,
how long one might tumble before finally crunching to certain death on the
floor?

The robot reaches the airlock, but cannot quite fit through the gap.

>enter hole
You cross yourself once.  This is it - a long jump - air whipped from your
mouth - certain death on a solid flooring, who knows how far down.  You can see
nothing in there, it is black.  Will they ever find this body?  Who can say? 
You close your eyes and leap into the dark.

And land, an instant later, in a waist-deep hole.

In a Hole
   You are waist-high in a hole in the floor, in the middle of a corridor of
mangled metal walls.

You hear Rosalind's trudging footsteps.

>z
Time passes...

You hear Rosalind's trudging footsteps.

>z
Time passes...

You hear Rosalind's trudging footsteps.  With a loud rumble, the robot looms
over your head, filling your vision the way a cloud can blot out the sun.  You
cower, raising your arms instinctively over your eyes, as Rosalind pitches
forward into the hole...

But it seems the centre of those robots is just a sheet of orange paper, as it
rips easily when it hits your head.  A crash-smash later, you are standing in
the debris of shattered robot, half filling the pit.

>x robot
Rosalind is in at least twelve parts, most bright orange, a few black, with
wires spilling from several fissures.  The debris is four inches deep.

>search debris
Amongst the orange parts you find the robot's hockey-puck arm, which you take.

>x arm
It's a two-inch long black cylinder, as wide as your prosthetic wrist.  One end
is marked with concentric ridges - that's the end that fits the hatch-locks. 
It must be telescopic, somehow, but you can't see a mechanism.

>up
You scramble out of the hole.

Collapsed Corridor
   This was the eastern quadrant of the dome, but something has fallen away and
it is now a mangle of sheets of metal, intersecting skew-like.  About halfway
along, the roof is so low to the floor as to admit a mere few centimeters of
space between.  Wiring hangs from the neon light, but only the first segment is
still lit.  The loose panel is propped against the wall, revealing a promising,
deep hole into the bowels of the dome.

From the corridor outside you hear the swish-snap of the robot hatch.

>x wiring
The wiring is dark and dead, like the hair of a drowned mermaid.

>pull it
The wires slip through your hands.

>l
Collapsed Corridor
   This was the eastern quadrant of the dome, but something has fallen away and
it is now a mangle of sheets of metal, intersecting skew-like.  About halfway
along, the roof is so low to the floor as to admit a mere few centimeters of
space between.  Wiring hangs from the neon light, but only the first segment is
still lit.  The loose panel is propped against the wall, revealing a promising,
deep hole into the bowels of the dome.

>e
The only exit is west.

You hear the rumbling sound of another robot in the corridor.

>w
Corridor
   The corridor curves southeast to southwest, smooth metal walls low and
merging over your head.  Portholes splatter the north side like bullet-holes. 
A neon striplight runs the length of the corridor, light leaking round the
bends until it is cut on the west side by a robot-hatch, and on the east by an
airlock door, which is open.

To the south is the door back to the mortuary, a black glass panel by its side.

An orange robot is here.

The robot opens the hatch and rumbles through.

>w
The robot's hatch is closed.

>put arm in recess
The hatch slides open for a brief moment, then slams shut.  You put the arm in
once more, and this time, slip through.

Curving Corridor
   The western side of the dome, and an area not designed for human personnel. 
Robot hatches stand secure at the north and southern ends, the latter a little
dented, perhaps in the same explosion that damaged the east side.  Portholes
peer out in the dark, their ring broken by a passage to the west, opposite an
open archway to the east.

>put arm in circular recess
The hatch opens; you dart through.

Corridor
   The corridor curves southeast to southwest, smooth metal walls low and
merging over your head.  Portholes splatter the north side like bullet-holes. 
A neon striplight runs the length of the corridor, light leaking round the
bends until it is cut on the west side by a robot-hatch, and on the east by an
airlock door, which is open.

To the south is the door back to the mortuary, a black glass panel by its side.

>put arm in recess
The hatch opens; you dart through.

Curving Corridor
   The western side of the dome, and an area not designed for human personnel. 
Robot hatches stand secure at the north and southern ends, the latter a little
dented, perhaps in the same explosion that damaged the east side.  Portholes
peer out in the dark, their ring broken by a passage to the west, opposite an
open archway to the east.

>put arm in dented recess
There is a dull click.  It seems not to want to work.  There could be a hundred
finicky mechanical reasons why.

Kathleen slips through the northern hatch and moments later exits to the south.

>w
By Airlock
   This is just a short vestibule, from the airlock to the west to the main
corridor back east.  The airlock door is sealed, but looking through its panel,
you can see a long corridor, leading off into the distance.  This must be the
umbilical to the rest of the lab.

>open airlock
You can't quite reach the catch.

>x airlock
The door is sealed shut.  You can make out the opening mechanism - on this door
it's near the top, out of reach for stumpy Dr.  Kurner and probably your old
self too.  Set into the centre of the door is a viewing panel.

>x mechanism
Nothing fancy, just a large button that you'd need to jab.  You just can't
reach it, that's all.

>e
Without something to poke that catch with - a broom handle, or something -
there's no way through that airlock.  Hopefully you can find something, though;
as that's the way back to the lab.

Curving Corridor
   The western side of the dome, and an area not designed for human personnel. 
Robot hatches stand secure at the north and southern ends, the latter a little
dented, perhaps in the same explosion that damaged the east side.  Portholes
peer out in the dark, their ring broken by a passage to the west, opposite an
open archway to the east.

The norhern hatch flips open and out pops Victoria.  She slowly lumbers
southward, disappearing through the southern hatch.

>n
The hatch is shut.

>put arm in circular recess
The hatch opens; you dart through.

Corridor
   The corridor curves southeast to southwest, smooth metal walls low and
merging over your head.  Portholes splatter the north side like bullet-holes. 
A neon striplight runs the length of the corridor, light leaking round the
bends until it is cut on the west side by a robot-hatch, and on the east by an
airlock door, which is open.

To the south is the door back to the mortuary, a black glass panel by its side.

>s
The door is closed and locked.

>x door
It is locked, it seems.  By the side, at shoulder height, is a black glass
palm-scanner.

Through the door appears Charlotte.

>x scanner
Flat black glass, a panel that uses all manner of fancy beams to read over your
palm-print and check you are who you think you are.  Unfortunately, it's not
clever enough to realise you now think you are someone that you actually
aren't.  Or you think you are someone who you're not, but really are.  Or
something like that.  Anyway, it's a pig-ignorant machine.

The robot opens the hatch and rumbles through.

>touch scanner
It bleeps red, displaying "PATTERN NOT IN DATABANK".

>x arm
It's a two-inch long black cylinder, as wide as your prosthetic wrist.  One end
is marked with concentric ridges - that's the end that fits the hatch-locks. 
It must be telescopic, somehow, but you can't see a mechanism.

>put arm in recess
The hatch opens; you dart through.

Curving Corridor
   The western side of the dome, and an area not designed for human personnel. 
Robot hatches stand secure at the north and southern ends, the latter a little
dented, perhaps in the same explosion that damaged the east side.  Portholes
peer out in the dark, their ring broken by a passage to the west, opposite an
open archway to the east.

>e
Computer Core And Coffin Room
   This appears to be the hub of the Hansome's world.  Along one wall runs a
large computer bank, over which soft lights play in colours tailored for
electric eyes.  The far corner of the room contains a large glass cylinder that
disappears through the ceiling; it is open at the bottom, where a coffin waits.
The centre of the floor is taken up by a circular hatch marked "Waste
Disposal".  The juxtaposition is quite unpleasant, and if too much so, you
could leave back west.

>x coffin
The coffin is a smart black number of regular height.  It is unmarked, open,
and waiting with a depressing certitude.

From the corridor, you hear the sound of the robot hatch opening and closing.

>x computer
The computer has one main screen, a circular recess to serve as a monodigital
keyboard, and a flat black palm scanner.  However, your gaze is taken by one
larger switch, marked with beautiful portent: PERSONAL DETONATION DISPENSEMENT.

>i
You have a robot arm.

>x switch
That switch should dole out swifter death than cyanide.

>x cylinder
It's glass, and stretches upwards.  During a funeral, the base seals, it fills
with water and coffins are flushed out to be found and buried on land.  You'd
seen it before on the designs for this place, but never realised they'd been so
heartless as to actually build the thing.

>get in coffin
You made that mistake when you joined AtlantisLab.  You're not doing it again.

From the corridor outside you hear the swish-snap of the robot hatch.

>pull switch
You tug the switch.  It sticks halfway, and a message appears on the screen:
DISPENSEMENT SET.  PROCEED VIA PERSONAL SETTING.

>x hatch
Ah, the eco-friendly waste system.  A hatch, with a short tunnel, another
hatch, and then the sea.  Waste goes into through one door and is ejected into
the water.  Simple, effective, and self-cleaning.  The waste disposal hatch is
closed, and there is no immediately obvious control to change that.

>x computer
The computer has one main screen, a circular recess to serve as a monodigital
keyboard, and a flat black palm scanner.  The switch for the PDD is stuck half-
way down.  The screen is flashing something about setting a PERSONAL.

>touch scanner
Of course, it probably won't be happy with your print.  But you put your palm
on the glass anyway.

The computer heaves and splats.  You barely notice a squat oblong fire out from
its base, because of a searing pain that shoots across your palm.  You pull
back your hand, to find you have been branded!

>x palm
Your palm contains a brand.  Beneath it is inscribed "Press for detonation."

From the corridor outside you hear the swish-snap of the robot hatch.

>press brand
Your finger hovers over the contact.  Eyes to palm, eyes to bomb.  You can't
help feeling it's a slightly extreme way to go.  But you press the button
anyway.

"!ERROR - PERSONAL WITHIN BLAST RADIUS!" screams a siren from just above your
wrist.

>x computer
The computer has one main screen, a circular recess to serve as a monodigital
keyboard, and a flat black palm scanner, slightly stained with your blood.  The
switch for the PDD is stuck half-way down.  The screen is blank.

>x blood
You didn't think Dr. Kurner had any left.

The red light on the black oblong winks.

>l
Computer Core And Coffin Room
   This appears to be the hub of the Hansome's world.  Along one wall runs a
large computer bank, over which soft lights play in colours tailored for
electric eyes.  The far corner of the room contains a large glass cylinder that
disappears through the ceiling; it is open at the bottom, where a coffin waits.
The centre of the floor is taken up by a circular hatch marked "Waste
Disposal".  The juxtaposition is quite unpleasant, and if too much so, you
could leave back west.

Sitting in the middle of the floor is a black oblong, with a single red light
on top which blinks intermittently.

>x oblong
Of course, "black oblong" is a marketing euphemism.  It means "container
capable of violent explosive self-destruction" or "Bomb".

It's small, black, and judging by the way it slid across the floor, very heavy.
There is a single red light on top which blinks intermittently.

The familiar swish-snap sound of the robot hatch gets your attention.

>take bomb
It's small, but it's heavy, and flat on the flat floor so you can't get your
fingers underneath.  (That's not helped, of course, by the fact you can barely
bend your left palm thanks to the brand.)

>w
Curving Corridor
   The western side of the dome, and an area not designed for human personnel. 
Robot hatches stand secure at the north and southern ends, the latter a little
dented, perhaps in the same explosion that damaged the east side.  Portholes
peer out in the dark, their ring broken by a passage to the west, opposite an
open archway to the east.

>push brand
You press the small black button.

"!ERROR - PERSONAL WITHIN BLAST RADIUS!" screams a siren from just above your
wrist.

>w
By Airlock
   This is just a short vestibule, from the airlock to the west to the main
corridor back east.  The airlock door is sealed, but you recall that a long
corridor leads off into the distance.

>e
Curving Corridor
   The western side of the dome, and an area not designed for human personnel. 
Robot hatches stand secure at the north and southern ends, the latter a little
dented, perhaps in the same explosion that damaged the east side.  Portholes
peer out in the dark, their ring broken by a passage to the west, opposite an
open archway to the east.

The norhern hatch flips open and out pops Victoria.  She slowly lumbers
southward, disappearing through the southern hatch.

>put arm in circular recess
The hatch opens; you dart through.

Corridor
   The corridor curves southeast to southwest, smooth metal walls low and
merging over your head.  Portholes splatter the north side like bullet-holes. 
A neon striplight runs the length of the corridor, light leaking round the
bends until it is cut on the west side by a robot-hatch, and on the east by an
airlock door, which is open.

To the south is the door back to the mortuary, a black glass panel by its side.

>e
You slip through the airlock, into a mangle of metal.

Collapsed Corridor
   This was the eastern quadrant of the dome, but something has fallen away and
it is now a mangle of sheets of metal, intersecting skew-like.  About halfway
along, the roof is so low to the floor as to admit a mere few centimeters of
space between.  Wiring hangs from the neon light, but only the first segment is
still lit.  The loose panel is propped against the wall, revealing a promising,
deep hole into the bowels of the dome.

>w
Corridor
   The corridor curves southeast to southwest, smooth metal walls low and
merging over your head.  Portholes splatter the north side like bullet-holes. 
A neon striplight runs the length of the corridor, light leaking round the
bends until it is cut on the west side by a robot-hatch, and on the east by an
airlock door, which is open.

To the south is the door back to the mortuary, a black glass panel by its side.

>x door
It is locked, it seems.  By the side, at shoulder height, is a black glass
palm-scanner.

Through the door appears Charlotte.

>touch palm-scanner
It bleeps red, displaying "PATTERN NOT IN DATABANK".

The robot opens the hatch and rumbles through.

>s
The door is closed and locked.

>w
The robot's hatch is closed.

>put arm in recess
The hatch opens; you dart through.

Curving Corridor
   The western side of the dome, and an area not designed for human personnel. 
Robot hatches stand secure at the north and southern ends, the latter a little
dented, perhaps in the same explosion that damaged the east side.  Portholes
peer out in the dark, their ring broken by a passage to the west, opposite an
open archway to the east.

>x portholes
Through the portholes swim a variety of underwater fish, lit in the half-glow
leaking from this dome.

>e
Computer Core And Coffin Room
   This appears to be the hub of the Hansome's world.  Along one wall runs a
large computer bank, over which soft lights play in colours tailored for
electric eyes.  The far corner of the room contains a large glass cylinder that
disappears through the ceiling; it is open at the bottom, where a coffin waits.
The centre of the floor is taken up by a circular hatch marked "Waste
Disposal".  The juxtaposition is quite unpleasant, and if too much so, you
could leave back west.

Sitting in the middle of the floor is a black oblong, with a single red light
on top which blinks intermittently.

The familiar swish-snap sound of the robot hatch gets your attention.

>x computer
The computer has one main screen, a circular recess to serve as a monodigital
keyboard, and a flat black palm scanner, slightly stained with your blood.  The
switch for the PDD is stuck half-way down.  The screen is blank.

>x recess
Much like the others you've seen.  Around the circumference are marked small
lines.

>put arm in recess
You clip the robot arm into the circular recess.  The screen lights up with a
list of names.

The red light on the black oblong winks.

>x screen
The list on the screen reads:
DOE, JACK
DOE, JENNY
DOE, JEREMY
DOE, JOSEPHINE
DOE, JULIA
DOE, JOHN

Jack's name is currently blinking.

>x computer
The computer has one main screen, a circular recess to serve as a monodigital
keyboard from which protrudes a broken robot arm and a flat black palm scanner,
slightly stained with your blood.  The switch for the PDD is stuck half-way
down.  The screen is displaying a list of names.  One - "JACK" - is flashing.

The familiar swish-snap sound of the robot hatch gets your attention.

>touch scanner
You gather once is more than enough.

>push switch
It doesn't budge.

>put arm in recess
The robot arm is already in the recess!

>x recess
The arm protrudes from the recess like a broken spur from a wrecked ship. 
Around the circumference are marked small lines.

>pull arm
You unclip the arm from the recess.  The screen flashes: "PROCESSING...
PROCESSING...  READY", then falls dark.

From the corridor outside you hear the swish-snap of the robot hatch.

>i
You have a robot arm.

Your left palm has been branded with a button.

>press button
You press the small black button.

"!ERROR - PERSONAL WITHIN BLAST RADIUS!" screams a siren from just above your
wrist.

>put arm in recess
You clip the robot arm into the circular recess.  The screen lights up with a
list of names.

>x screen
The list on the screen reads:
DOE, JENNY
DOE, JEREMY
DOE, JOSEPHINE
DOE, JULIA
DOE, JOHN

Jenny's name is currently blinking.

You hear the familiar snap of the robot hatch echo in the corridor.  You turn
and spot Kathleen, connected to trolley, trudging along the corridor.

>get arm. put arm in recess
You unclip the arm from the recess.  The screen flashes: "PROCESSING...
PROCESSING...  SYSTEM BUSY", then falls dark.

Kathleen enters the room, pushing a trolley in front of it.  On the trolley
lies Jack Doe.

You clip the robot arm into the circular recess.  The screen lights up with a
list of names.

The robot pushes the trolley over to the coffin, performs an ingenious twist,
and the body slides in.

>pull switch
It doesn't budge.

The robot flips the coffin shut.  The glass cylinder seals, and in a great
spiral of water rather too much like a submarine toilet, the coffin is ejected
outwards and upwards.  You can't help noticing its panel was never engraved. 
An empty coffin slides into place, by some mechanism too fast for your watery
eyes to follow.

>x computer
The computer has one main screen, a circular recess to serve as a monodigital
keyboard from which protrudes a broken robot arm and a flat black palm scanner,
slightly stained with your blood.  The switch for the PDD is stuck half-way
down.  The screen is displaying a list of names.  One - "JENNY" - is flashing.

Kathleen turns tail and leaves the room, pushing its empty trolley before it.

>z
Time passes...

>get arm
You unclip the arm from the recess.  The screen flashes: "PROCESSING...
PROCESSING...  READY", then falls dark.

The familiar swish-snap sound of the robot hatch gets your attention.

>z. z. z. z
Time passes...

Time passes...

Time passes...

Time passes...

You hear the familiar snap of the robot hatch echo in the corridor.  You turn
and spot Charlotte, connected to trolley, trudging along the corridor.

>z
Time passes...

Charlotte enters the room, pushing a trolley in front of it.  On the trolley
lies Jenny Doe.

>z
Time passes...

The robot transfers the body to the coffin.

>z
Time passes...

The robot flips the coffin shut, and it is ejected, presumably into the sea
above.

>listen
You can hear the low hum emanating from the computer bank.

Charlotte turns tail and leaves the room, pushing its empty trolley before it.

You hear a great rumbling under the floor.

>put arm in recess
You clip the robot arm into the circular recess.  The screen lights up with a
list of names.

>x recess
The arm protrudes from the recess like a broken spur from a wrecked ship. 
Around the circumference are marked small lines.

From the corridor, you hear the sound of the robot hatch opening and closing.

>x screen
The list on the screen reads:
DOE, JEREMY
DOE, JOSEPHINE
DOE, JULIA
DOE, JOHN

Jeremy's name is currently blinking.

>turn arm
You turn the arm one notch, and the name JOSEPHINE in the list begins to blink.

>turn arm
You turn the arm one notch, and the name JULIA in the list begins to blink.

The red light on the black oblong winks.

>turn arm
You turn the arm one notch, and the name JOHN in the list begins to blink.

>push arm
The arm goes no further in, but it is free to rotate.

From the corridor outside you hear the swish-snap of the robot hatch.

>turn arm
You turn the arm one notch, and the name JEREMY in the list begins to blink.

>take arm
You unclip the arm from the recess.  The screen flashes: "PROCESSING...
PROCESSING...  READY", then falls dark.

>z
Time passes...

The red light on the black oblong winks.

>z
Time passes...

You hear the familiar snap of the robot hatch echo in the corridor.  You turn
and spot Charlotte, connected to trolley, trudging along the corridor.

>z
Time passes...

Charlotte enters the room, pushing a trolley in front of it, on which lies
Jeremy and Jeremy's peg-leg.  It is heading for the coffin, but there is a
sudden loud grumbling from under the floor and the robot stops dead.  Before
you spot the connection between the trolley's position and the waste-disposal
hatch, the trolley has been tipped up by a neat shudder of Charlotte's lower
limbs and Jeremy has slid down in the compartment in the floor.  The coffin
remains empty, and appears not to have noticed that's its snack has been thrown
away by the waiter.

The robot motors quietly out of the room westward, leaving the trolley behind,
lolling flat on the floor once more.  The waste-disposal hatch slides shut. 
Or, well, almost shut.  Jeremy's peg-leg protrudes, obstructing the closing of
the cover.

>z
Time passes...

>z
Time passes...

>z
Time passes...

>z
Time passes...

>z
Time passes...

From the corridor outside you hear the swish-snap of the robot hatch.

>get leg
The hatch has gripped it obliquely, and it's trapped on something inside the
compartment (an armpit, perhaps).

>open hatch
You pull at the hatch, but don't have quite enough strength to move it with
your hands.  Jeremy's peg-leg slides a bit toward you.

>get leg
You lever open the hatch with the peg-leg, which finally comes free in your
hands.

Inside, your eyes are met by an appalling sight.  Jeremy is crumpled in the
bottom of the compartment, whose lower door is not sealed, but rather filled by
a thick green sludge, which oozes between his splayed limbs.

And as you look down, the sludge looks up.  You leap back.

>x sludge
You lean back toward the hole.

There is a surge of movement from inside the hatch, and then an eruption of
cobalt goop as a tentacle surges out.  It feels at the air, back and forth like
the foil of a fencer, swiping toward your face.  You recoil, stumble, fall back
flat upon the trolley.  The suckers, blood-tipped already, follow the sound,
soon hovering mere inches from your face.

>push trolley
You try to jerk the trolley to move, but to do so without moving nearer the
squid.  The net effect - fear and no motion.

From the corner of your eye you see water bubbling in through the hatch, the
tunnel beneath which is now held open on both ends by the enormous arm of the
squid.  This arm sweeps the room, an inch from your nose, unable to find you.

>get in coffin
You are flat out on the trolley and not moving an inch higher.

>wait
Time passes...

The tentacle swoops back a little, like a hawk soaring to survey.  It seems to
have lost you.

>push button
You press the small black button.

"!ERROR - PERSONAL WITHIN BLAST RADIUS!" screams a siren from just above your
wrist.

The light on the black oblong winks.

In a flash the tentacle has descended, enfolding and embracing the bomb and
dragging it down through the hatch with it.  You breath a sigh of relief as it
slides out of sight.

But the waste hatch is still open, still broken, and as the tentacle leaves the
only obstacle between the room and the sea has left too.  A fountain jets up
into the room, catching the trolley as it splashes down.  You start to roll,
out of the door westwards.

Curving Corridor
   You are flat out on the trolley, which is building speed as the crashing
water from the computer room powers behind.  You clutch Jeremy's peg-leg for
comfort, as though it'll steer you, though you're clearly in the lap of luck
now.

>z
Time passes...

From the computer room comes a roar, and you see the trunk of the tentacle
erupt once more, heading toward the only moving object it can find - you.

The trolley fires further.

By Airlock
   The trolley is cannoning westward.  The sealed airlock door approaches like
the last view of a crash-test dummy.  You can just spot the opening catch, way
out of reach, waiting to be pushed.

The squid is hot on your tail, a huntsman with the waves his hounds.

>push catch with leg
You jab wildly for the opening catch with the peg-leg as you approach it.  The
airlock hisses, and slides open just in time for the head of the trolley to
shoot through.

Long Tunnel
   This is a tunnel joining the modules of the lab.  It is long, unmarked, a
solid steel umbilical with dim lighting and no windows.  And the floor slopes
downward.

You accelerate.  Sirens wind into life all about the corridor, and far ahead a
flood door is beginning to lower.

Hmm.  Someone's left a computer hotwired into a wall panel, just lying around
in the corridor.  That's no way to access, at a guess, the robot's systems
stored in the Mortuary block.

You just notice these things, that's all.

>wait
Time passes...

Behind you the tentacle is still coming.  It's almost upon you.  The flood door
is now half-way to the floor.

In a final surge, you crash toward the flood door, and sweep through just
before it rams home.  There is a colossal thud from behind as the squid hammers
into it.  But it holds.  The trolley rockets calmly into a wall, and you are
thrown painfully, rolling further down the corridor where it bends to the
north, head spinning with legs.  It is a while before you take in your
surroundings once more.

Intersection
   You're in the main module, and that means you know your way around with your
eyes shut.  With your eyes open you can also comment on the decor; and note
that it improves substantially to the east where the General has his office, to
the west it probably disimproves (Kurner's hole is over there) and north leads
toward the centre of the dome which means one thing - toward the room with your
machine.

Back south is a long corridor.

>w
Outside Kurner's Room
   The corridor continues around the curve of the base to the northwest, to the
rooms of the various scientists.  This one is of interest though, perhaps - it
is the door to Kurner's room - chosen by lottery, it is the nearest to all the
machinery and so the loudest to be in.

The door itself is quite a sight if you like hybridised tech - Kurner being the
paranoiac he is has fitted it with a Russian retinal scanner, a thumb-reader
and a voice tag detector.

>unlock door
There's a pretty formidable array of locks on the thing!

>put hand on reader
The door chimes happily.

>look in scanner
The door pings happily.

>talk to detector
You can't talk to the microphone.

>say "hello" to microphone
Nothing happens.

>x microphone
Just a microphone to read in a code-word.  Known to be temperamental most
people don't trust these to anything you actually want to be able to get into. 
Kurner himself always has problems because he insists on whispering his
password.  Eventually he'll just yell "SCARECROW" and pretend it was a curse at
the door's failures.

>yell "scarecrow"
The door fleeps happily.  It swings open.

>n
Ironic, really, that if he'd just had a keyhole you'd never have broken in.

Dr. Kurner's Office
   - is also his room, and it's a tip.  A bed in one corner looks utterly
pristine, under forty or fifty large books.  The desk, facing onto a ubiquitous
porthole, has a computer screen and keyboard set into it but is otherwise
empty.  The floor is a seaweed-sludge of screwed-up paper and dirty clothing. 
A door leads out south, and there's a bathroom annex to the west.

From the floor one fragment of paper catches your eye.  It reads: "If you are
reading this, then, by Jove, it's all up with you!"

>x paper
There are about a hundred scraps of paper littered around.  You pick one at
random to read:

   "When this note enters your possession, you are quite simply doomed!!"

>x paper
   "About to read this!  Ha!  Then you are doomed!"

>x paper
   "When this note enters your possession, death is your only alibi!!!"

>x paper
   "About to read this!  Ha!  Then you're basically dead!!"

>x books
80% are "Physics for Beginners", 18% are "Biochemistry for Beginners" and 1
book is a biography of Judy Garland.

>x computer
"Type password:"

>read biography
No, don't.  You really don't want to know what Kurner's hidden behind that
appalling dust-jacket.

>s
Outside Kurner's Room
   The corridor continues around the curve of the base to the northwest, to the
rooms of the various scientists.  This one is of interest though, perhaps - it
is the door to Kurner's room - chosen by lottery, it is the nearest to all the
machinery and so the loudest to be in.

The door itself is quite a sight if you like hybridised tech - Kurner being the
paranoiac he is has fitted it with a Russian retinal scanner, a thumb-reader
and a voice tag detector.

>e
Intersection
   You're in the main module, and that means you know your way around with your
eyes shut.  With your eyes open you can also comment on the decor; and note
that it improves substantially to the east where the General has his office, to
the west it probably disimproves (Kurner's hole is over there) and north leads
toward the centre of the dome which means one thing - toward the room with your
machine.

Back south is a long corridor.

>e
Outside the General's Office
   A familiar waiting room - when you first joined AtlantisLab you'd be here
every month as you worked your way up the security clearances.  Ironic, in a
way, that you were only two chevrons from finding out what all that electro-
plasma and virus engineering was for when you'd mooted your Project and been
booted into a whole new department.  Just goes to show, it seems, that even the
most dedicated people need a holiday, and the General himself was no doubt very
much looking forward to stepping inside your machine and spending a fortnight
on a beach in someone else's head.

Of course he, like all the others, and yourself, was expecting it to work.

>e
The General's door is closed.

>open door
It's locked, very heavily, with many a large key.

>w
Intersection
   You're in the main module, and that means you know your way around with your
eyes shut.  With your eyes open you can also comment on the decor; and note
that it improves substantially to the east where the General has his office, to
the west it probably disimproves (Kurner's hole is over there) and north leads
toward the centre of the dome which means one thing - toward the room with your
machine.

Back south is a long corridor.

>n
You walk along a fairly long stretch of corridor, until it opens out.

Bottom of Spiral
   The designers of this place clearly had something to prove to the gods of
pressure - this room, unlike the cramped corridors and tight bunkrooms, is a
wide cathedral-like dome, held up by one fat pillar in the centre of the floor.
A smooth ramp snakes around it on a gentle incline up to the higher levels - no
stairs here, the robots not being that adept - and on a normal day the floor
around would be crowded with scientists, like worshippers at a standing stone. 
However today - for some reason, it seems - is not a normal day.  Where is
everyone?

Corridors leave the space in all directions - Kurner's room is down the passage
further south.

>up
You climb the great spiral of the ramp, round and round until you're sure the
ground is screwing in and you're not going anywhere...

Floor One
   You know you're in favour when your personal lab is put on the first level
of the building.  It's behind that door to the south, the one only you have the
key to.  Except, of course, you haven't got it, because you're inside the room.
Or you might be.  Anyway, the door seems to still be open, which is handy.

A loose panel hangs from the doorframe - it seems it's incurred some damage
since you were last here.

The ramp which leads back down to the main room is north.

There's a screwdriver lying on the floor.

A lab coat is crumpled in the corner.  You're shivering, and quickly put it on.

>get screwdriver
You pick it up, noting the yellow plastic handle seems to be slightly charred
at one end.

>x panel
The panel is about two inches by four, and hangs from one screw revealing the
wiring inside.  Which, now you look, is certainly not how is should be.

>x wiring
There are two wires running under the panel, down to the keyhole.  They have
been ripped up from their sockets, the ends bared; presumably they were then
twisted together to make the door unlock.

Whoever did this has since tried to repair the damage - the first wire is
jammed back into their socket.  But with one wire connected the other would
have been sparking with a lot of electricity.  It's strangely dead, now. 
Perhaps the fuse was blown by a surge.

More importantly though, someone has hotwired your door whilst you've been
away.

>s
You enter your lab.

Machine Room
   The room is much as you left it; a porthole above a bank of heavy machinery.
The glass cylinder stands in one corner, aloof and empty.

You can't help noticing with something verging on a nervous tick above one eye
that a terminal case has had its lock smashed open.

>x terminal
The terminal lock has been broken, shattered off, with a few dents in the metal
left behind.  These dents are about a half-centimeter long, and thin, like the
blade of a screwdriver.

>look in it
(opening the case first)
Inside the case is all the familiar circuitry and wiring - and then one
addition to the family.  A black plastic box sits on the base of the terminal,
with a multi-strand wire coming out of the side, its connections soldered onto
the circuit boards.  You recognise the manufacture.  It's exactly like the
modules Dr.  Kurner was building for you, it's his characteristic habit of
hiding all his work inside moulded boxes so no-one can see it and criticise.

But what's it doing here?  You last checked over the machine last night, it
wasn't here then.  In the morning - well, Kurner was already here, wasn't he? 
So whatever happened to your machine - whatever you're doing in this non-
sunshine state - it's his doing.  And you're not going to be able to get back
to your own body with this machine unless you find out what he's done.

>get box
The box is firmly soldered into the machine.  You'd need proper tools if you
were going to remove it.  Probably easier, then, to get it open and rewire it
inside.

>x cylinder
The cylinder is all rigged up and ready from the experiment, the door open.

>enter cylinder
You step inside the cylinder.

Inside the glass cylinder
   Cables feed away from the base of the cylinder.  Inside, there's the grille
for your feet, and the Emergency Door Release Switch.

>x grille
The grille has no functional purpose.

>x switch
The Emergency Release Switch - provided in the terrible off-chance that the
door release cover might fail, or be sabotaged, or any such.

>pull switch
The switch does nothing - the door does not slide shut.

>out
You step out of the cylinder.

Machine Room
   The room is much as you left it; a porthole above a bank of heavy machinery.
The glass cylinder stands in one corner, aloof and empty.

One terminal case is violently unlocked.

>n
Floor One
   You know you're in favour when your personal lab is put on the first level
of the building.  It's behind that door to the south, the one only you have the
key to.  Except, of course, you haven't got it, because you're inside the room.
Or you might be.  Anyway, the door seems to still be open, which is handy.

A loose panel hangs from the doorframe - it seems it's incurred some damage
since you were last here.

The ramp which leads back down to the main room is north.

>d
You make your way down the ramp...

Bottom of Spiral
   The designers of this place clearly had something to prove to the gods of
pressure - this room, unlike the cramped corridors and tight bunkrooms, is a
wide cathedral-like dome, held up by one fat pillar in the centre of the floor.
A smooth ramp snakes around it on a gentle incline up to the higher levels - no
stairs here, the robots not being that adept - and on a normal day the floor
around would be crowded with scientists, like worshippers at a standing stone. 
However today - for some reason, it seems - is not a normal day.  Where is
everyone?

Corridors leave the space in all directions - Kurner's room is down the passage
further south.

>s
You walk back down the corridor.

Intersection
   You're in the main module, and that means you know your way around with your
eyes shut.  With your eyes open you can also comment on the decor; and note
that it improves substantially to the east where the General has his office, to
the west it probably disimproves (Kurner's hole is over there) and north leads
toward the centre of the dome which means one thing - toward the room with your
machine.

Back south is a long corridor.

>w
Outside Kurner's Room
   The corridor continues around the curve of the base to the northwest, to the
rooms of the various scientists.  This one is of interest though, perhaps - it
is the door to Kurner's room - chosen by lottery, it is the nearest to all the
machinery and so the loudest to be in.

The door itself is quite a sight if you like hybridised tech - Kurner being the
paranoiac he is has fitted it with a Russian retinal scanner, a thumb-reader
and a voice tag detector.

>n
Dr. Kurner's Office
   - is also his room, and it's a tip.  A bed in one corner looks utterly
pristine, under forty or fifty large books.  The desk, facing onto a ubiquitous
porthole, has a computer screen and keyboard set into it but is otherwise
empty.  The floor is a seaweed-sludge of screwed-up paper and dirty clothing. 
A door leads out south, and there's a bathroom annex to the west.

>x computer
"Type password:"

>s
Outside Kurner's Room
   The corridor continues around the curve of the base to the northwest, to the
rooms of the various scientists.  This one is of interest though, perhaps - it
is the door to Kurner's room - chosen by lottery, it is the nearest to all the
machinery and so the loudest to be in.

The door itself is quite a sight if you like hybridised tech - Kurner being the
paranoiac he is has fitted it with a Russian retinal scanner, a thumb-reader
and a voice tag detector.

>e
Intersection
   You're in the main module, and that means you know your way around with your
eyes shut.  With your eyes open you can also comment on the decor; and note
that it improves substantially to the east where the General has his office, to
the west it probably disimproves (Kurner's hole is over there) and north leads
toward the centre of the dome which means one thing - toward the room with your
machine.

Back south is a long corridor.

>e
Outside the General's Office
   The door to the General's office itself is to the east.  This room isn't
really a room, it's more just an expansion of the corridor westwards, with the
walls hung with deep curtains and a couple of leather sofas stuck in the middle
of the floorspace.  In one corner there used to stand a potted plant, but as
budget cuts meant saving on electricity it quickly died in the glow of forty-
watt bulbs.

In place of the plant is a Stat machine.

>x curtains
They're deep blue, like the sea, and hung to cover the otherwise utilitarian
walls.

>look behind curtains
Behind the curtains is propped what you assume are a few cleaning tools - a
floor waxer and a metal rod with a plate on the end.

>get metal detector
Taken.

>get waxer
It's far to heavy.

>x machine
A panel for your hand, and then once read it'll tell you on a need-to-know
basis all you need to know.  By one side is a notice listing all the current
clearances: "1 - General Huffing.  2 - Dr.  Kurner, Prof. Taylor".  3 is your
old group, and contains most of the established members of the team.  Zak still
loiters in a class by himself, no. 12, mainly due to his mother being Ukrainian
and the General being somewhat old-school.

>touch panel
Clearance 2: CONFIRMED
   *Plasma virus-injection complete
   *Virus tests on rodent subjects complete
   *Results show 250% growth - see Dr. Taylor for details.
WARNING - CONTAINER LOSS REPORTED

Container loss!  Well, that would explain why Taylor had that "car keys down
the gutter" expression all last week.

The screen falls dark as you remove your hand.

>w
Intersection
   You're in the main module, and that means you know your way around with your
eyes shut.  With your eyes open you can also comment on the decor; and note
that it improves substantially to the east where the General has his office, to
the west it probably disimproves (Kurner's hole is over there) and north leads
toward the centre of the dome which means one thing - toward the room with your
machine.

Back south is a long corridor.

>w
Outside Kurner's Room
   The corridor continues around the curve of the base to the northwest, to the
rooms of the various scientists.  This one is of interest though, perhaps - it
is the door to Kurner's room - chosen by lottery, it is the nearest to all the
machinery and so the loudest to be in.

The door itself is quite a sight if you like hybridised tech - Kurner being the
paranoiac he is has fitted it with a Russian retinal scanner, a thumb-reader
and a voice tag detector.

>n
Dr. Kurner's Office
   - is also his room, and it's a tip.  A bed in one corner looks utterly
pristine, under forty or fifty large books.  The desk, facing onto a ubiquitous
porthole, has a computer screen and keyboard set into it but is otherwise
empty.  The floor is a seaweed-sludge of screwed-up paper and dirty clothing. 
A door leads out south, and there's a bathroom annex to the west.

>x detector
It's called a "Cosmetic" apparently, in another one of those horribly garbled
nicknames that are currently all the range.  (Anyone for a Coocla?  Or a game
of Bammon?)  It has a switch on one side, a four-foot handle pole and a rounded
plate at the base.

>turn it on
Bleep!

>point it at clothes
Nothing.

>point it at bed
Bleep!

Hunting more thoroughly leads you to locate a small key under the dust jacket
of a hideous looking volume.

>unlock drawer with key
Unlocked.

>open drawer
Opened.

In the drawer you see a pill-bottle and a notepad.

>x notepad
The notepad is scribbled on - but you can't make out the handwriting, it just
looks like a scrawl.

>x pill-bottle
It's labelled in gibberish: "TAXI MALLO BALUO:"  and so forth.

>get bottle
Taken.

>get notepad
Taken.

>read notepad
The notepad is scribbled on - but you can't make out the handwriting, it just
looks like a scrawl.

>open bottle
Of course!  An overdose on strange medicines!  That'd take you out faster than
it did your aunt!  (Who was rushed to hospital, revived, but then died of food-
poisoning from a bunch of grapes).

You open the bottle, to reveal a large number of pink tablets.

>eat tablets
You swallow a fistful, noting they are cherry flavoured.  Then you wait.

One.

Two.

Zmigra.

Chank.

Zis qua!  Lil betite monkrane follo!  Ze chafi lighan mucho blanchos, y ca
merhaba ftang flivaro-toaster.  Milcha!  San omb-bomba ze anse le tabbycat-rrr.

>ANSE TABBYCAT-RRR

La ranja se: "ProtoFrench lessons.  Dosage: one tablet last five minutes.  Try
to avoid taking more than twenty a day.  Do not take with alcohol or whilst in
control of aircraft or heavy equipment.  Do not feed to children.  Do not use
as fertiliser, or vitamin supplement.  Do not sue the manufacturer for
misunderstandings."

The shock of comprehension lasts well after the severe nausea and stomach cramp
has passed, and you come around, feeling well.  The drug - a ProtoFrench class,
presumably imported from Europe itself - has slackened its grip on the language
centres of your brain leaving you with just a mild dyslexia when you look
around.

>x notepad
"He is there.  He was there.  He will be there.  He has been there.  He might
well be there.  He shall be there.  The password is dog.  The password was dog.
The password will be dog.  The password has been..."

And so on.

>type "dog" on computer
You start to type; but only start however because the drug is screwing up your
eyes and screwing up the letters.  One minute they're symbols and the next
they're leaping like fireflies.  You know the first letter you want to press of
course, but the keys are shifting beneath your eyes, and every time you find
it, it changes and your hand gravitates spontaneously the other way.  It's like
trying to touch magnets like to like.

After a few moments of queasy frustration you stop.  The problem is, of course,
that words are words but words are also groups of letters and the tablet has
fiddled one around, but not the other.  If you could touch-type you'd probably
be alright; but as soon as you start to think about how to spell your word,
half your mind is in English, the other half ProtoFrench, and the net effect is
a slight headache.

>w
(Opening the bathroom door)
Bathroom
   Standard cubby-hole bathroom really.  A sink, toilet, and a greasy mirror
reflecting the steam-stained beige walls in all their smudged glory.  The
door - should you tire of such an atmospheric locale - is back east.

You feel a slight shadow pass across your eyes as your brain is repaired to
Native Tongue once more.

>eat tablet
You swallow a pill, and wait a second until the pain in your brain indicates
effect.

>write "dog"
(on the mirror)
You breathe on the mirror and a pool of condensation forms.  You close your
eyes and write as automatically as you can.  There: "dog"

>x mirror
Kurner's harassed and ugly mush looks back at you.  You can't help noticing he
looks a little pale - but then everyone here does, it's lack of sunlight.  Once
again you curse your machine for not having put you sea-side.  You can make out
"dog" scribbled in big chunky fat-child finger-writing in the condensation.

The condensation on the mirror evaporates away.

>z
Time passes...

The brain-pain subsides.

>breathe on mirror
You breathe on the mirror and a pool of condensation forms.  The word "CHYNE"
is now visible on the mirror.

>e
Dr. Kurner's Office
   - is also his room, and it's a tip.  A bed in one corner looks utterly
pristine, under forty or fifty large books.  The desk, facing onto a ubiquitous
porthole, has a computer screen and keyboard set into it but is otherwise
empty.  The floor is a seaweed-sludge of screwed-up paper and dirty clothing. 
A door leads out south, and there's a bathroom annex to the west.

>type "chyne"
(on the keyboard)
"Password accepted"

The screen changes.

>x screen
It's changed to white, just plain white.  There should be a selection of
program buttons - and a logout - which you'd touch to activate the
applications.  (The "mouse" went out of fashion as soon as people were willing
to have fine enough electrodes implanted in their index fingers).  But there's
nothing visible here.

>touch screen
You jab the screen randomly and eventually hit the logout button at the bottom
left of the screen, which you spot by the way it blinks blue before returning
the screen to

"Enter password:"

It must have been white-on-white.

>type "chyne"
(on the keyboard)
"Password accepted"

The screen changes.

>touch top left
The screen changes.

>x screen
On the screen is a collection of Dr.  Kurner's documents - mostly
uninteresting; work reports, one is apparently the first draft of a novel
called "Vengeance is my Sister".  There is one open already - and it catches
your eye.

It is the design for a black-box module with a multistrand wire feed that looks
not a whole lot unlike the one plugged into your beloved upstairs.  You skim
over the opening mechanism and make a note of it, before ploughing into the
circuits themselves.

Quickly the patterns form.  The search processes have been altered - no longer
the first-mind-in-set-location pattern you'd programmed, but rather a nearest-
to-base scan.  And the criteria - you'd demanded a certain age, fitness, and
suntan level for your subject.  Kurner's level is set for ... good grief...

That explains it then.  That box must have been in place this morning, when you
stepped into the machine.  It's set up to find the nearest dead body it can and
transfer.  Thinking back - didn't Kurner collapse when the machine fired? 
Maybe he had a heart attack or something, then machine transferred you in.

Only one thing to do then.  Get back to the machine, and reprogram that box to
get you back.

>touch bottom left
The screen changes to

"Enter password:"

>type "chyne"
(on the keyboard)
"Password accepted"

The screen changes.

>touch top right
Nothing happens.

>s
Outside Kurner's Room
   The corridor continues around the curve of the base to the northwest, to the
rooms of the various scientists.  This one is of interest though, perhaps - it
is the door to Kurner's room - chosen by lottery, it is the nearest to all the
machinery and so the loudest to be in.

The door itself is quite a sight if you like hybridised tech - Kurner being the
paranoiac he is has fitted it with a Russian retinal scanner, a thumb-reader
and a voice tag detector.

>e
Intersection
   You're in the main module, and that means you know your way around with your
eyes shut.  With your eyes open you can also comment on the decor; and note
that it improves substantially to the east where the General has his office, to
the west it probably disimproves (Kurner's hole is over there) and north leads
toward the centre of the dome which means one thing - toward the room with your
machine.

Back south is a long corridor.

Joe the janitor saunters in from the east corridor.  "Well, there it is!" he
exclaims.  "I've been looking for that."  He removes the Cosmetic from your
hand with a frown of reproach.  "I know you scientists are the bigwigs here,
but I wish you'd ask first."

"Say, Dr. Kurner, are you ill?"  He smiles.  "I guess you're nervous about the
Big Day.  I'll let you get on."  With that - and with the metal detector - he
whistles his way off westwards.

Big Day?

>n
You walk along a fairly long stretch of corridor, until it opens out.

Bottom of Spiral
   The designers of this place clearly had something to prove to the gods of
pressure - this room, unlike the cramped corridors and tight bunkrooms, is a
wide cathedral-like dome, held up by one fat pillar in the centre of the floor.
A smooth ramp snakes around it on a gentle incline up to the higher levels - no
stairs here, the robots not being that adept - and on a normal day the floor
around would be crowded with scientists, like worshippers at a standing stone. 
However today - for some reason, it seems - is not a normal day.  Where is
everyone?

Corridors leave the space in all directions - Kurner's room is down the passage
further south.

>up
You climb the great spiral of the ramp, round and round until you're sure the
ground is screwing in and you're not going anywhere...

Floor One
   You know you're in favour when your personal lab is put on the first level
of the building.  It's behind that door to the south, the one only you have the
key to.  Except, of course, you haven't got it, because you're inside the room.
Or you might be.  Anyway, the door seems to still be open, which is handy.

A loose panel hangs from the doorframe - it seems it's incurred some damage
since you were last here.

The ramp which leads back down to the main room is north.

>s
You enter your lab.

Machine Room
   The room is much as you left it; a porthole above a bank of heavy machinery.
The glass cylinder stands in one corner, aloof and empty.

One terminal case is violently unlocked.

>x box
You kneel down by the terminal case and begin to feel for the various catches
which control the opening mechanism.  There's one - the next - you feel one
side start to pivot round, which is a good sign.

Suddenly there is a noise from the door.  You stand up sharply, wheel around.

"Oh, hi there, Dr. Kurner!" exclaims Zak cheerily, from the doorway.  He has a
screwdriver held between his teeth and is working on something in the
doorframe.  "Something went wrong with the door; I'm just refusing it.  Be with
you in a second."

>tell zak about me
"Huh?  What?  Hold on, be right with ya," snaps Zak.

>open box

You freeze as Zak shouts "Morning, Professor!"  And sure enough, through the
door enters yourself, looking spritely, excited, well.  You stagger back in
shock against the machine, in front of the damaged terminal case.  There is a
moment of eye-contact, but the Professor - you - don't seem to react.

The others on the project enter the room and start to fiddle with the
machinery.  As the Professor pauses to gaze in proud awe at his construction,
Zak winks your way and whispers "Good thing I got that door fixed, eh?"

"All set, Professor?"  Zak takes his arm - your arm is supporting your weight
against the terminal due to the weakness entering your body as suddenly it all
comes become clear.  "Nearest-search".  Any physicist knows "near" isn't just a
three-dimensional concept.

"FIVE".  "FOUR".

"Hey - do you suppose it should be sparking like that?"  Zak pipes up.

It is sparking, too, but you're not thinking about that, you're desperately
trying to work out what happens next.

"And then there's quite a bit of smoke too, isn't there?"

Dr. Kurner's box wasn't well programmed enough to cope with this - with an
empty mind-sack next to a host containing its mind.  Not only that but the
machine is still performing it's primary search too, just secondary to Kurner's
implanted approach.

"Maybe we should open it up and take a look?"

And to cap it all - you've just seen a cable at the top of the machine which is
plugged into completely the wrong socket.

A school of fish swims past the window.

"Anyone got a screwdriver?"  A few pat their pockets, and shrug.

"ZERO."

Your eyes flip open, to a flash of your face in glass.  Then the air sears once
more.  Bug in my program, you think.  What happens now?
Blue
   No other way to put it.  Our myriad eyes see it a hundred different ways; a
million little angles on the same rocks below, the same lights distant and
near.  It all spins sickly, too much information, too much speed, every bit of
changing direction constantly.  We are swimming, around in and about each
other.

The school flicks about and swims northward.

Blue
   From way above trickles light.  To the south is the dome.

>x me
We are multiple, all seeing.  We see ourself and the world at once, it is all
placed out.  We are fish.

Floating through the blue comes a cuttlesprout.

>s
We swim south.

Blue
From way above trickles light.  To the south is the dome.

>x rocks
We don't see any rocks here.

>s
The dome blocks us swimming.

An allamander swims by.

>x dome
The dome is a huge bulge of copper on the seabed.  We do not understand it, it
is just rock, shape of land, movement of speed of water.  A metal corridor
snakes out of it eastward toward a smaller dome, with a glass chimney at its
top.  It is the mortuary block and near it blackness moves.

An octopus swims by.

The school flicks about and swims westward.

Blue
   From way above trickles light.  To the south is the dome.

>e
The school trails eastward.

Blue
From way above trickles light.  To the south is the dome.  We are near a window
in a large metal dome just to the south.

>s
The dome blocks us swimming.

>x window
We see our reflection.

>e
We swim east.

Blue
To the south is the bulging dome.  All around us is the blue.  We are above a
long corridor of metal leading toward the mortuary.

Floating through the blue comes a finn.

>x dome
The dome is a huge bulge of copper on the seabed.  We do not understand it, it
is just rock, shape of land, movement of speed of water.  A metal corridor
snakes out of it eastward toward a smaller dome, with a glass chimney at its
top.  It is the mortuary block and near it blackness moves.

Floating through the blue comes a snuttlenose.

The school flicks about and swims northwest.

Blue
The dome is south.  We are in blue.

>e
We fin east.

Blue
From way above trickles light.  To the south is the dome.

This is ridiculous.  We can't spend our life as a shoal of fish.  We need to
get back, and fast.

A finn passes us in eerie silence.

>e
The school trails eastward.

Blue
From way above trickles light.  To the south is the dome.

A shrake swims by.

>u
We are up and down as well.  We are a school, and wide, and shape changing
always.

The school flicks about and swims northeast.

Blue
   From way above trickles light.  To the south is the dome.

>x chimney
The Mortuary dome is broken, some walls have collapsed under a great dark
weight we cannot see clearly, with moving eyes and confusion.

Floating through the blue comes an octopus.

The school flicks about and swims southeast.

Blue
   The dome is south.  We are in blue.

>s
We swim south.

Blue
To the south is the bulging dome.  All around us is the blue.  We are above a
long corridor of metal leading toward the mortuary.

>e
We fin over the dome of mortuary, where the metal turns black with a heaving
darkness.

Our motion sets a rustle in the water like the waving of seaweed and some of
the shoal tries to leave in a panic.  The darkness below is moving.  It's
coming nearer.  It's rushing from the seabed in a motion like the unfolding of
the earth.  It is a giant, wrapping hand, that our kaleidoscope eyes see from
all sides and form into a huge rounded trunk in our mind.  The whole object
encompasses us until a mouth is doing the same.  The rest try to swim away,
finning back madly over the corridor toward the dome.  The shadow follows,
boiling out of the sand, revealing its shadow full.  Sweeps over the corridor,
more of us are lost.  We try to out-shake it.  We fail.  Flitter, flurry, fade,
in blackness.
Eyes open.  You feel somewhat dizzy.  You can't remember how to tie a tie, you
note, which at least means one got away.

Inside the Cylinder
   The glass door has slid open.  Outside, the room is empty bar for smoking
machinery and Dr. Kurner's body, slumped out on the floor.

Somewhere, an alarm is blaring.

>x me
You are yourself, once more.

>look
Inside the glass cylinder
   Cables feed away from the base of the cylinder.  Inside, there's the grille
for your feet, and the Emergency Door Release Switch.

>out
You step out of the cylinder.  From here you can see the screen in the corner
of the room, which shows a giant multi-tentacled creature growing from over the
mortuary dome, coming closer.

Machine Room
   Your machine is in one corner, forgotten.  Dr. Kurner slumps on the floor,
quite dead, almost forgotten too.

The alarm is blaring.  A voice over the intercom shrieks "What are we going to
do?  General?  WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO?"

>x screen
The squid is coming closer, ever closer.  In a matter of minutes it will crush
the lab.

>push button
You jab the button on Dr. Kurner's palm and for two seconds everything shakes. 
A stream of bubbles, like a jet passing, rips outside the window.  The water
there turns deep red, then slowly back to blue, and the room falls still.

Moments later Zak dives in.  "Professor!  You're awake!  You'd never believe
what happened!"

"Attacked by a giant squid?"

"Yeah!  Um."  He frowns a bit.  "I guess you saw it on the screen.  Hey!  Is
Dr. Kurner alright?  What happened to him?"

"He laid down his life," is your reply.  "To save the lab."

Zak hears this, and his frown deepens.  "I guess you'd know," he replies
uncertainly.

*** All's well that ends well ***

*** Except for Kurner, that is ***


You may restore a saved game, start over, quit, or undo the current command. 
Amusing is now also available to you.
Please enter RESTORE, RESTART, QUIT, UNDO or AMUSING:  >