Text will now be saved to the script file.  Type SCRIPT OFF to discontinue
scripting.

>X PILOT
The shuttle pilot, Sublieutenant Soolin is an attractive, dark-haired young
woman of oriental extraction.  She is sitting on the pilot’s seat.  She’s
looking at you, waiting for you to speak.

Sublieutenant Soolin is wearing a dark blue uniform.

>X ME
Women seem to find you attractive, and you find no reason to challenge their
opinion.  Tall, slender, and athletically built, with aristocratic features and
short blond hair you are just a month over twenty-eight Earth standard years of
age.

You are carrying nothing, and are wearing a purple belt and a white uniform.
The purple belt contains a drik.  Your left pocket contains an ID card.  Your
right pocket contains a crumpled piece of paper.

>I
You are carrying nothing, and are wearing a purple belt and a white uniform.
The purple belt contains a drik.  Your left pocket contains an ID card.  Your
right pocket contains a crumpled piece of paper.

>ASK SOOLIN ABOUT YOURSELF
“Sublieutenant, I’ve been meaning to ask you about...” you begin.

“Beg pardon, sir, but I thought we were both anxious to get out of here, sir,”
she interrupts you, “So can we talk about that on the way back to the ship once
you’ve finished here?”

“Okay,” you nod.

>A HERSELF
“What’s your first name, sublieutenant?” you ask.

“Samantha, sir,” she replies, “But my friends call me Sam.”

>TOPICS
You could ask her about herself, your orders, Elysium, or the Federation
crisis.

>A ORDERS
“What did I do with my orders?” you wonder.

“I think you put them in your pocket, sir,” she tells you.

>LOOK IN POCKETS
right pocket: Your right pocket contains a crumpled piece of paper.

left pocket: Your left pocket contains an ID card.

>X PAPER
(first taking the crumpled piece of paper from your right pocket)
It’s a white piece of paper bearing the orders that brought you here.

>READ ORDERS
After the standard preamble, it goes on:

“I’m sorry to dump this on you, but the Federation crisis means that we’ve had
to pull all but skeleton resources out of this sector, and you’re the nearest
Legion officer to hand.  As a result, we need you to include Elysium in your
rounds.  It’s a sensitive planet – probably one of the most sensitive
settlements in the Empire – but provided you go straight in and straight out
and stick strictly to these orders you shouldn’t have any problems.

The purpose of your visit is simply to remind the local leadership that they
are still part of the Empire and that we are still keeping tabs on them; quite
literally, you’re just there to ‘show the flag’.  To do this you’ll need to
make your way to the Legion office in what passes for the settlement’s capital,
and, once there, hoist the imperial flag above the building to show the local
Elders that you’re open for business.  One or more of them should then come to
call on you within the hour.  When they do, be as diplomatic and courteous as
possible, but otherwise keep the conversation to a minimum.  Inform them in the
simplest possible terms of the nature of the Federation crisis, emphasising
that the Empire will continue to guard them from intrusion.  Ask them if they
have anything they want to raise with you.  Almost certainly they won’t, apart
from their standard grumbles about imperial interference.  Say as little as
possible in reply beyond promising to pass their comments on.  Once you have
completed this conversation get out of there as quickly as you can.

The most important thing to understand about the Elysians is that they have
made a religion of technophobia.  Their idea of a paradisal society is a pre-
industrial society, so try not to flaunt any technology you bring with you; the
less the settlers see of any thirtieth-century technology, the better you’ll
get on with them.

Finally, I cannot stress too strongly that you should on no account get
involved in any of the internal affairs of Elysium, and that you should if at
all possible avoid any contact with any of the settlers apart from the Elders
who come to meet you.  Terrible mistakes have been made on Elysium in the past,
and any problems that come up in the present must be left to officers with a
deep understanding of the situation there, which does not include you.  So, get
in, keep the chat nice and short, and get straight out again.

I look forward to receiving your report in due course.
Subtribune G.F.  Booker (C/O Sect PP12, ISL)
13-Sep-2980.

[Auth Code: ISL-GF-PPn342]”

(Your score has just increased by one point.)
(If you’d prefer not to be notified about score changes in the future, type
NOTIFY OFF.)

>A PLANET
“What do you know about this place?” you ask her.

“Only what I’ve heard, sir,” she replies, “I’ve never been here before.  It
does have quite an odd reputation, though, as I’m sure you know.  Something
went horribly wrong in the past, but no-one wants to talk about it.  And now
the natives refuse to use any technology that’s much more advanced than the
wheel.”

>G
“Do you know anything else about Elysium, sublieutenant?” you ask.

“I thought the Sovereign Legion was meant to be the experts on that kind of
thing, sir,” she replies pertly.

>OUT
(first standing up)
“Goodbye, sir,” Sublieutenant Soolin calls after you.

You clamber out of the shuttle.

Hollow
You step out of the shuttle and feel the soil of Elysium pressing against your
boots.  It feels good to be back on the surface of a planet once more, and at
first glance this planet looks welcoming enough.  The early autumn air is
comfortably warm, and smells fresh, if a little earthy, while the grass
underfoot looks springy and green.  But what really strikes you is how quiet it
is.

Looking around, you speculate that your shuttle has just landed in what was
originally an impact crater.  To the west the ground rises quite sharply – more
sharply than you care to climb – but there seems to be a usable trail running
north and south, and from what Sublieutenant Soolin said, it’s the southern one
you want.

Your shuttle rests in the middle of the hollow.

>X SHUTTLE
The small white four-seater shuttle is little more than a space-reinforced
flyer.  It’s roughly wedge-shaped in deference to aerodynamic efficiency, and
has an imperial eagle painted on either side.

>X DRIK
You have no idea where the name “drik” came from; so far as you know that’s
what it’s been called for centuries.  The drik is a multipurpose device that’s
issued to all Legion officers as standard.  Despite the natives’ dislike of
modern technology, this is one item you’re not prepared to go without – it was
drummed into you at the Legion Training School that a Legion Officer’s drik is
an integral part of his uniform, never to be lost or surrendered under any
circumstances.

The drik is vaguely dagger-shaped, with a black handle, on which are four small
coloured studs, and a slightly longer “blade”, a flat plastimetal strip that is
not actually sharp enough to cut anything.

The drik has one further function in addition to that provided by its four
studs: although you’re unlikely to encounter much strange technology on
Elysium, if you do encounter something you’re suspicious of, pointing your drik
at it may reveal something about its function.

>X STUDS
There are four small studs round the base of the handle: one red, one yellow,
one green, and one blue.

>PRESS RED STUD
Pushing the red button will send an emergency distress signal which will bring
a squad of marines rushing to your rescue.  If there isn’t actually an
emergency you’ll be in real trouble for wasting their time.  If there is a real
emergency the marines can’t possibly get here in time, since they’d need to
come down in a shuttle from the orbiting frigate.  So either way, you may as
well leave that stud alone.

Don’t forget, if you just want to test something with your drik, just point the
drik at it.

>PRESS YELLOW STUD
Do you really want to shoot yourself in the foot?  You should only press the
yellow stud when the drik is aimed at someone you want to stun.

>PRESS GREEN STUD
The drik lights up.

>PRESS BLUE STUD
A short beep indicates that you have opened a communications link with your
pilot.

“Hello, do you read me?” you ask.

“I read you, praefect,” the pilot’s voice replies.

(You could ask her about herself, or the Federation crisis, or tell her about
yourself.)

>A CRISIS
“So, what do you make of this Federation business, Sam?” you ask her, “Will it
be war do you think?”

“I don’t know, sir.” she replies, “But if it is, at least we’re well out of it
here!”

>A CRISIS
“I don’t think the Empire has faced a crisis this big in a quarter of a
millenium,” you remark.

“Since the Border War, you mean, sir?” she replies, “But the Federation is much
more powerful than the Free World League ever was!”

“Quite,” you agree grimly.

The drik light goes out to conserve power.

>BYE
“Over and out,” you say.

“Over and out, sir,” she confirms, just before the comms link goes dead.

>S
Dirt Track
You leave the hollow and follow the dirt track down a ridge onto level ground,
where it runs on south between untended fields towards the forest.  This area
looks like it may have been farmland once, but now the fields are reverting to
wilderness, and even the track is starting to become overgrown.  As you pause
to take stock of your surroundings, you wonder why the land has been allowed to
go to waste.

>X FIELDS
The fields on either side of the track are so overgrown as to be impenetrable.
They look as if they may once have been valuable arable land, but now they are
rapidly reverting to wilderness.

>S
You set off down the track and after a few minutes’ walk you find yourself deep
in the heart of the forest.

Heart of the Forest
You stop to look round and try to reassure yourself that you’re still on the
path Sublieutenant Soolin told you about.  You can’t see any side trails
(though there may be the odd gap in the trees through which you could leave the
main path) so it’s hard to see how you could have gone wrong; and yet it
doesn’t quite feel right – but perhaps that’s just because you find it so
disconcerting being forced to walk through a forest for a routine meeting with
local officialdom.

Although the path has been straight enough so far, a short way ahead it starts
to twist.

>S
The path twists and turns through the trees, but broadly continues south.

Edge of the Forest
The track becomes straighter and wider here as the trees become sparser.  They
are now so widely spaced that you could easily wander among them to east and
west, and since they continue to thin out to the south you surmise that you
must be coming to the edge of the forest.

While you are taking stock of your surroundings, you hear a sudden rustling in
the undergrowth.  Your heart misses a beat as you see a figure emerge from the
trees and walk rapidly towards you.  Under the dirt and the tattered rags you
recognize it as a young woman, and you wonder if this is how all the settlers
live.

“Excuse me!” she cries, as she hurries up to you, “You’re an offworlder, aren’t
you?  From the Empire?”

(You could say yes, or ask her who she is.)

>ASK HER WHO SHE IS
“Who are you?” you ask.

“My name’s Leela.  I’m just one of the local farm girls.  Or rather, I was –
now I’m not even that, I’m just a nobody.  And if someone doesn’t help me soon
I’ll be even worse off,” she tells you.  “As you can see, my clothes are
falling to rags, and I’m starving!  I’m an outcast – no one from round here
will help me, and I daren’t be caught stealing.  But you’re an offworlder – so
maybe – please, can you try to find me some new clothes and something to eat?”

(You could say yes or no, refuse politely, offer to get help, or ask her about
food or clothes.)

>ASK HER ABOUT FOOD
“Where can I find food and clothes for you?” you want to know.

“You could try the town – it’s not far away,” she suggests.  “So, is that a
yes?  Are you going to get me some food and clothing?”

>REFUSE POLITELY
“Look, I’d like to help, but I really can’t,” you tell her, “I have my orders
you see – I’m not even meant to be talking with you, let alone getting
involved.  Besides, I won’t be here more than an hour or so.”

“Oh, but it won’t take you more than an hour or two to find me something,” she
assures you, “The town isn’t far away, and I’m sure you can find something for
me there.”

>ASK LEELA ABOUT HERSELF
“What happened to you?  Why are you wandering around half-naked in the forest?”
you want to know.

“I asked too many questions,” she replied, “the Elders don’t like you asking
too many questions, so when I asked one too many they decided I wasn’t fit for
Elysian society – so now I’m an outcast.”

>G
“How long will you be an outcast for, Leela?” you inquire.

“Goodness knows!” she replies, “This present bunch of Elders isn’t in any hurry
to take me back.  Maybe once they’ve all dropped dead their replacements will
be more forgiving – but I’m not counting on it.”

>G
“So how long have you been an outcast?” you wonder.

“Months and months,” she shrugs, “I’ve lost count.”

>A ELDERS
“What can you tell me about these elders?” you ask.

“They’re terrible old men,” she tells you, “they regard themselves as the only
people entitled to any opinion, and they can’t stand anyone questioning them.”

>G
“What function are the Elders meant to perform?” you enquire.

“They’re meant to be the guardians and co-ordinators of our community,” she
sniffs.

>G
“You don’t care for the Elders much, I take it,” you surmise.

“No, they’re a bunch of pompous, backward-looking stick-in-the-muds,” she
declares.

>A TOWN
“What will I find in the town?” you wonder.

“Not much,” she shrugs, “No one actually lives there; it’s just for meetings
and markets.  But that means things get stored there, so you should be able to
find me some food and clothes, without anyone there to stop you.”

>A MEETINGS
“Tell me about these markets and meetings in town,” you request.

“Well,” she replies, “the markets are where people get together to exchange
things – food they’ve grown and the like.  The meetings are when people get
together to talk about things.”

>S
Leela waves to you, then turns and walks away, deeper into the forest.

Hillside above the Town
Emerging from the forest you catch sight of the pathetic cluster of buildings
at the foot of the slope, and realize that this must be the town where you’re
meant to be meeting with the Elders; on any other world it wouldn’t even rate
as a hamlet.  The centre of the town lies straight down the slope to the south.
Beyond the western edge of the hillside you catch a glimpse of the river that
flows on past the town, while at your back is the forest.

>X RIVER
The river flows down from the forest and runs along the western edge of the
town, before disappearing across the distant fields to the south.

>S
You walk down the slope into the centre of the town.

Town Centre
The centre of Elysium’s sole town looks no more impressive than it did from a
distance.  The main street, running east-west, is simply the baked mud space
between buildings you could count on your fingers.  The track you’ve just
walked down continues south between a neat white building (to the east) and a
large barn (to the west).  Across the street from the barn is an enclosed area
that has the look of a primitive market, while opposite the single-storey white
building a large wooden hall has shed most of its red paint.  Overall this
place is more like your idea of some frontier trading post than a planetary
capital, and it seems totally deserted.

>X NEAT WHITE BUILDING
It’s a small, square, single-storey flat-roofed building, with a flagpole
jutting up from the roof.

>E
East End of Town
The north side of the street is occupied by a large wooden hall.  On the south
side is a neat single-storey white building (directly south) next to a two-
storey green house (to the southeast).  The street continues eastwards but
quickly peters out into a narrow farmtrack as it leaves the town, while to the
west it runs back towards the town centre.

>N
Inside the Hall
This seems to be a meeting hall of some sort, with rows of plain wooden benches
facing a crude stage at the northern end.  It’s unclear whether this place is
intended for religious or secular purposes; quite possibly it does duty for
both.  The overall effect is decidedly gloomy, even though a fair amount of
sunlight steals in through the unglazed windows and the open doorway to the
south.

>S
East End of Town
The north side of the street is occupied by a large wooden hall.  On the south
side is a neat single-storey white building (directly south) next to a two-
storey green house (to the southeast).  The street continues eastwards but
quickly peters out into a narrow farmtrack as it leaves the town, while to the
west it runs back towards the town centre.

>S
(first trying to open the purple door)
The purple door seems to be locked.

>X ID CARD
(first taking your ID card from your left pocket)
Your ID card is a rectangle of white data-plastic about two centimetres wide by
four long.  It bears a small photograph of you and identifies you as Praefect
Andrew Holt of the Imperial Sovereign Legion.

>PUT ID CARD IN SLOT
A sharp click from the door indicates that it has just unlocked itself.

>S
(first opening the purple door, then taking your ID card)

Sovereign Legion Office
You look round the clean, white office with a flood of relief, feeling that you
are at last back in civilization.  Everything here looks clean and neat and
Legion-fashion.  A large white desk, with a standard built-in console, rests
under the great golden eagle mounted on the east wall.  Behind the desk sits a
comfortable mock-leather chair, while a pair of smaller chairs, one red, the
other white, are positioned in front of the desk, presumably for the benefit of
visitors.  The main door is next to the window overlooking the street to the
north, while a staircase runs up against the south wall to a hatch in the
ceiling.  A second door is set in the east wall, to the left of the eagle,
while a large portrait of the Emperor hangs opposite.

>X DESK
The desk is the familiar model you’ve seen in many Legion offices, with a
built-in console and a single shallow drawer.

>X CONSOLE
It’s a standard model console, with a 50 cm screen and a datatab slot.  On an
ordinary world it would be connected to the planet-wide datanet, but you doubt
that such a thing exists on Elysium.

>OPEN DRAWER
Opening the drawer reveals a purple datatab and a pair of safety pins.

>TAKE DATATAB AND PINS
purple datatab: Taken.
pair of safety pins: Taken.

>PUT DATATAB IN SLOT
The screen displays: “Please enter your Authorization Code: ”

>READ ORDERS
After the standard preamble, it goes on:

“I’m sorry to dump this on you, but the Federation crisis means that we’ve had
to pull all but skeleton resources out of this sector, and you’re the nearest
Legion officer to hand.  As a result, we need you to include Elysium in your
rounds.  It’s a sensitive planet – probably one of the most sensitive
settlements in the Empire – but provided you go straight in and straight out
and stick strictly to these orders you shouldn’t have any problems.

The purpose of your visit is simply to remind the local leadership that they
are still part of the Empire and that we are still keeping tabs on them; quite
literally, you’re just there to ‘show the flag’.  To do this you’ll need to
make your way to the Legion office in what passes for the settlement’s capital,
and, once there, hoist the imperial flag above the building to show the local
Elders that you’re open for business.  One or more of them should then come to
call on you within the hour.  When they do, be as diplomatic and courteous as
possible, but otherwise keep the conversation to a minimum.  Inform them in the
simplest possible terms of the nature of the Federation crisis, emphasising
that the Empire will continue to guard them from intrusion.  Ask them if they
have anything they want to raise with you.  Almost certainly they won’t, apart
from their standard grumbles about imperial interference.  Say as little as
possible in reply beyond promising to pass their comments on.  Once you have
completed this conversation get out of there as quickly as you can.

The most important thing to understand about the Elysians is that they have
made a religion of technophobia.  Their idea of a paradisal society is a pre-
industrial society, so try not to flaunt any technology you bring with you; the
less the settlers see of any thirtieth-century technology, the better you’ll
get on with them.

Finally, I cannot stress too strongly that you should on no account get
involved in any of the internal affairs of Elysium, and that you should if at
all possible avoid any contact with any of the settlers apart from the Elders
who come to meet you.  Terrible mistakes have been made on Elysium in the past,
and any problems that come up in the present must be left to officers with a
deep understanding of the situation there, which does not include you.  So, get
in, keep the chat nice and short, and get straight out again.

I look forward to receiving your report in due course.
Subtribune G.F.  Booker (C/O Sect PP12, ISL)
13-Sep-2980.

[Auth Code: ISL-GF-PPn342]”

>TYPE ISL-GF-PPn342 ON CONSOLE
The screen displays: “Authorization Code Correct!  Access permitted.  ”

The console screen displays a recent report on the status of Elysium.

The summary page tells you that the current population of the planet is a mere
11,345 (as of the latest count, last year), and that Elysium has the lowest GDP
per head of any planet of the Empire by a very long way.  The population
apparently peaked at around fifteen thousand about a century ago and has been
declining slowly ever since (there’s a link to a lengthy social-scientific
analysis of this, but you’re content with the summary, which suggests that the
society has simply become too stagnant).  The prognosis is that within a
century or two Elysian society will have become non-viable and the Empire will
be able (and obliged) to move in with a fresh bunch of settlers and make
something of the world (though this is not to be communicated to any of the
current inhabitants) but in the meanwhile, the Elysians are to be left alone to
decay as they wish, since there must be no repetition of past tragedies
(there’s a link to a file explaining this in more detail, but it turns out you
don’t have the security clearance to read it).  The summary ends with an
instruction to all imperial personnel operating on Elysium to keep contact and
interference to the bare minimum required to monitor the status of Elysian
society and ensure no outside interference.

>TAKE PURPLE DATATAB
As you remove the purple datatab, the console screen goes blank.

>UP
(first unlocking the hatch, then opening it)

Roof
Although the roof is not that high up, it affords you a reasonably good view
over the town.  A low parapet runs round the edge of the roof, at one end of
which is a tall white flagpole with a white locker at its base.  At the far end
is an array of solar panels, while in between a narrow staircase leads back
down through an open hatch.

>OPEN LOCKER
Opening the locker reveals a white pillowcase.

>TAKE PILLOWCASE
Taken.

>LOOK IN PILLOWCASE
(first unfolding the white pillowcase)
The white pillowcase contains a tiny black object.

>TAKE BLACK OBJECT
Taken.

>X IT
You almost missed it, it’s so tiny.  It’s round and black and smaller than a
pea, and could easily be mistaken for an innocuous piece of dirt. But it also
looks suspiciously artificial.

>POINT DRIK AT BLACK OBJECT
(first taking the drik from the purple belt)
The drik blade flashes red and emits a little beep, indicating that you have
discovered a listening device.  The next question is where the receiver is;
given the limited range of such a tiny listening device it can’t be too far
away from where the bug was planted – somewhere else in the town perhaps.

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>PRESS BLUE STUD
A short beep indicates that you have opened a communications link with your
pilot.

Sublieutenant Soolin does not appear to hear you.

>T BUG
(telling Sublieutenant Soolin)
Sublieutenant Soolin does not appear to hear you.

>G
(telling Sublieutenant Soolin)
Sublieutenant Soolin does not appear to hear you.

>BYE
Sublieutenant Soolin does not appear to hear you.

>X BARN
The large wooden barn dominates the view to the west, towering over the roof
you’re standing on, and blocking much of the view of the far end of the town.

>DOWN
Sovereign Legion Office
This office is the about the only place on Elysium that resembles your idea of
civilization.  A large white desk, with a standard built-in console, rests
under the great golden eagle mounted on the east wall.  Behind the desk sits a
comfortable mock-leather chair, while a pair of smaller chairs, one red, the
other white, are positioned in front of the desk, presumably for the benefit of
visitors.  The main door is next to the window overlooking the street to the
north, while a staircase runs up against the south wall to a hatch in the
ceiling.  A second door is set in the east wall, to the left of the eagle,
while a large portrait of the Emperor hangs opposite.

>E
(first opening the east door)

Bedroom
This small bedroom is presumably provided in case a visiting Legion officer
needs to stay overnight, but there’s not much here apart from a single bed hard
against the wall, a small wardrobe, and a small chest of drawers.  There’s a
door to the west back into the office, and a tiny bathroom to the south.

>LOOK IN WARDROBE
(first opening the wardrobe)

Inside the wardrobe is a small domestic robot.

>X ROBOT
It’s one of those small cylindrical jobs, basic but robust.  Presumably it
carries out the routine maintenance and cleaning in this building.  There’s a
yellow sticker attached to it.  It’s currently plugged into the wall, charging.

>X CHEST
It’s made of some dark wood and has three drawers.  It’s of fairly basic,
though robust design, its somewhat old-fashioned appearance suggesting that it
may be of local manufacture.

>OPEN TOP DRAWER
Opening the top drawer reveals a duvet.

>PUT DUVET ON BED
(first taking the duvet)
Done.

>OPEN MIDDLE DRAWER
Opening the middle drawer reveals a fluffy pink towel.

>TAKE TOWEL
Taken.

>OPEN BOTTOM DRAWER
Opening the bottom drawer reveals a plain white sheet.

>TAKE SHEET
Taken.  Moving the plain white sheet reveals an imperial flag underneath.

>TAKE FLAG
Taken.

>X FLAG
You know that the imperial flag depicts a large golden eagle on a purple
background, though it’s a little difficult to tell that while it’s folded.

>W
Sovereign Legion Office
This office is the about the only place on Elysium that resembles your idea of
civilization.  A large white desk, with a standard built-in console, rests
under the great golden eagle mounted on the east wall.  Behind the desk sits a
comfortable mock-leather chair, while a pair of smaller chairs, one red, the
other white, are positioned in front of the desk, presumably for the benefit of
visitors.  The main door is next to the window overlooking the street to the
north, while a staircase runs up against the south wall to a hatch in the
ceiling.  A second door is set in the east wall, to the left of the eagle,
while a large portrait of the Emperor hangs opposite.

>UP
Roof
Although the roof is not that high up, it affords you a reasonably good view
over the town.  A low parapet runs round the edge of the roof, at one end of
which is a tall white flagpole with a white locker at its base.  At the far end
is an array of solar panels, while in between a narrow staircase leads back
down through an open hatch.

>ATTACH FLAG TO ROPE
(first unfolding the imperial flag)
Done.

>PULL ROPE
You hoist the flag to the top of the pole, where it flutters gamely in the
breeze.

(Your score has just increased by two points.)

>X PARAPET
The parapet running round the edge of the roof is only about a metre high, and
so would not provide much of a barrier to someone determined to jump off or
clumsy enough to fall over.  In common with the rest of the building it’s
covered in white plaster.  A close examination of the parapet reveals what
looks like a fresh scratch.

>X SOLAR PANELS
The array of four solar panels at the east end of the roof is arranged to catch
as much sunlight as possible during the course of the day.  You suspect that
they convert the sun’s energy into electricity using photovoltaic cells, and
that the power is then stored in batteries.  These panels wouldn’t give enough
power for continuous use all the year round, but they probably generate enough
for the few days a year on which this building is actually used.

>X SCRATCH
It’s a short vertical scratch on the inside near the top, as though someone had
recently dragged a sharp object up the plaster.

>Z
Time passes...

An old man enters the town centre from the south.

>DOWN
Sovereign Legion Office
This office is the about the only place on Elysium that resembles your idea of
civilization.  A large white desk, with a standard built-in console, rests
under the great golden eagle mounted on the east wall.  Behind the desk sits a
comfortable mock-leather chair, while a pair of smaller chairs, one red, the
other white, are positioned in front of the desk, presumably for the benefit of
visitors.  The main door is next to the window overlooking the street to the
north, while a staircase runs up against the south wall to a hatch in the
ceiling.  A second door is set in the east wall, to the left of the eagle,
while a large portrait of the Emperor hangs opposite.

The old man enters the east end of the town from the west.

>Z
Time passes...

The old man enters the Sovereign Legion Office.  Since you don’t want one of
the natives to see you talking over the drik you surreptitiously cut the
connection.  “I’m Petroc, Chief Elder of Elysium,” the old man introduces
himself, “I saw your flag flying, so I came – but you look even greener than
the last one they sent.  So what have you come to bother about us this time?”

>A PETROC
“Did you say you’re the Chief Elder?” you ask.

“I sure did,” he affirms, “but that just makes me the first among equals – the
Chairman of the Council of Elders, I’m not some petty emperor.”

>A ELDERS
“How many Elders are there?” you ask.

“Twelve,” he tells you, “We each take responsibility for one district, but once
a month we come together to discuss matters of common concern.”

>T FEDERATION
“I’ve been instructed to tell you something about the Federation crisis,” you
explain, “Ever since Relda, tension between the Empire and the Federation has
been growing, and now there’s a real risk of war.  I’m instructed to inform you
that, in the event of hostilities, the Empire will continue to protect Elysium
from outside interference as it has always done, even though much of our
attention will of necessity be diverted to, ah, other matters.”

“Empire or Federation, what difference does it make to us?”  Petroc shrugs; but
then his curiosity gets the better of him, “Who or what was Relda?  And why is
your mighty Empire so worried about this Federation?”

>T RELDA
“It was what happened on Relda that revealed the real nature of the
Federation,” you explain, “Relda was one of the Federation’s wealthier worlds –
it may still be, for all we know.  It used to be self-governing, but the
Federation took more and more power away from the planetary government, and
bought up more and more of the planet’s assets.  Then, a few years ago, the
Reldans elected a new Planetary Council on a platform of wresting control of
their world back from the Federation.  The Federation responded by blowing up
the Council and blaming it on terrorists; then they took over the planetary
government themselves.  Relda went from being a member-world to being a
subject-world, a pattern that’s been repeated all over the Federation.”

“That is where riches and greed and human ambition always lead,” Petroc opines,
“to injustice and oppression.  That is why we have forsworn all such things
here.”

>T FEDERATION
“The Paranian Federation has grown nearly as strong as the Empire – it too now
numbers more than sixty worlds over a comparable volume of space,” you explain,
“Over the last two decades or so they’ve become more and more of a tyranny – as
events on Relda showed – and they’re also becoming more and more aggressive,
looking for new worlds to conquer.  We can’t stand by and just watch this
happen, so sooner or later we seem bound to clash.  In any case, there’s every
danger they’ll try to attack us!”

“That’s what your ‘progress’ and ‘technology’ does for you,” Petroc grunts,
“Our ancestors were right to turn their backs on all that rubbish!”

>A PLANET
“This is just one of our regular visits to check up on how things are going
here,” you tell him, “So, how are things going here?  Any problems?”

“The harvest is not plentiful, children are not respectful to their parents,
and parents do not produce enough children to make our numbers increase,” he
shrugs, “Nothing changes.”

>G
“Is there anything you need to report, any outside interference or anything
like that?” you enquire.

“The only outside interference comes from your empire,” Petroc grunts.  But
then he relents to the extent of adding, “You haven’t been talking with old
Jeb, have you?  You don’t want to take any notice of anything he says – he’s
full of addle-witted fool-guff.”

>A OLD JEB
“Who or what is old Jeb?” you wonder.

“Oh, he’s just the old fool who owns the farm just across the river.”  Petroc
tells you, “He’s not such a bad fellow, but he’s so full of bumble-rot.  He
says he saw something last week – or was it the week before?  He’s such a
muddle-wit he probably doesn’t even know himself!”

>G
“What exactly did this old Jeb character think he saw?” you ask.

“Something in the sky,” Petroc grunts, “at the dead of night, he says.  He went
out to check on a mare that was in foal, and says he saw something blotting out
some stars.  Sounds to me like it was just a passing cloud if it was anything
at all, but the old fool swears blind it was more like something floating down
from heaven.  I ask you – he’ll be saying it was the second coming next!”

>G
“What else did Jeb say about this object he saw at night?” you want to know.

“Well – he reckons what it was came down a little way to the north of his farm.
That would make it to the northwest of here, somewhere across the river running
through the forest.  But that’s just crazy nonsense, of course – there aint
nothing there but trees and grass!”

>G
“This thing that old Jeb says came down to the northwest, what could it have
been?” you wonder.

“Hell, I don’t suppose it was anything,” Petroc replies scornfully, “Like I
said, he probably just saw a cloud after having a mite too much to drink.  I
wouldn’t have mentioned it at all except to warn you not to take no notice of
it.  Old Jeb is such an addle-wit I’d not set much store by anything he said.”

>G
“So you haven’t checked old Jeb’s story out?” you ask.

“Of course not,” Petroc snaps, “No one else has mentioned anything strange, and
I’ve better things to do than waste my time checking on drunken ghost stories –
and so, I imagine, have you!”

>G
“Is there anything else you can tell me about old Jeb?”  you ask.

“No, not really” he replies, “I mean, he’s a decent enough farmer and all that,
and he don’t generally create any trouble, but he is such an addlepated old
fool.  Like I said, you don’t want to take any notice of him.”

>G
He’s already indicated that he has nothing more to say about old Jeb, and you
remember perfectly well what he told you: old Jeb is a bumble-wit who owns a
farm just over the river.  He went out in the dead of night to check on a mare
in foal a week or two ago and thought he saw something come down out of the
sky, a short way north of his farm.

>A LEELA
“I met a young woman called Leela in the forest on the way here,” you inform
him, “She says she’s an outcast - that you elders cast her out.”

“I know of no Leela,” he tells you stiffly, “And we do not cast people out.  We
take care of our own on Elysium.”

>G
“Leela’s a young woman with long dark hair, about twenty standard Earth years
or so old, I’d say,” you remark, “Do you not know of such a woman?”

“Your description would match any of a score of young women I know,” Petroc
complains, “But none of them have been ‘cast out’.  We do not do such things.”

>G
“Leela is half-starved and half-naked, and says none of you will feed her or
clothe her,” you tell him.

“That is nonsense; if any young woman was in such a plight, any of our people
would give her food and clothing,” Petroc replies.

“But she says you have forbidden it!” you protest.

“That is a lie!” he declares fiercely, “We would never do such a thing!”

>A ELDERS
“What do the Elders do?” you inquire, “What is your function?”

“To guide our people and preserve our ancestral ways,” he replies, “In
particular we preserve the memory of the worlds we left behind, the greed and
oppression and misery that goes with ‘technology’ and ‘progress’, so that each
generation can be taught what we have escaped and why we must preserve our
simple way of living.”

>BYE
“Well, I think that’s about it, then; I needn’t detain you any longer,” you
say.

“You’ve already detained me quite long enough,” Petroc concurs gruffy, “So I
shall bid you good day.”

Petroc leaves through the street door.

>N
East End of Town
The north side of the street is occupied by a large wooden hall.  On the south
side is a neat single-storey white building (directly south) next to a two-
storey green house (to the southeast).  The street continues eastwards but
quickly peters out into a narrow farmtrack as it leaves the town, while to the
west it runs back towards the town centre.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

Petroc is standing here.

Petroc goes inside the large wooden hall.

>W
Town Centre
This is the centre of the town, such as it is.  The main street, if it can be
called a street, runs east and west from here, crossing a track that runs north
and south.  To the northwest is a market area, opposite a large barn on the
south side of the street, while to the east the street runs between a small
white building (on its south side) and a large wooden hall (on its north).

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>W
West End of Town
The muddy street from the centre of the town to the east ends at a ramshackle
wooden bridge that has unfortunately fallen into a terminal state of disrepair,
leaving no other means of crossing the river.  A large wooden barn stands
immediately to the south, next to a pair of tumbledown shacks, while on the
north side of the street is a rough enclosed area that looks like it’s probably
some sort of market.  Behind the market the land climbs up towards the distant
forest.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>X BARN
It’s the largest building at this end of the town, perhaps some nine or ten
metres high; it’s basically a plain wooden structure with its gable end
presented to the street.  Since it’s just across the street from the market
area, you surmise that it’s probably used to store produce for the market.

>ENTER BARN
(first trying to open the barn door)
The barn door seems to be locked.

>N
Market Area
This fenced-in area of a few dozen square metres looks like it might be used
for a market, both from the rubbish that’s been left lying around, and the
impress in the muddy ground of what might be stalls or tables.  A small shed
stands near the centre of the area, with a trestle table off to one side.  Gaps
in the fence allow egress to the south and southeast, as well as north along
the bank of the river.

On the trestle table are a carrot and a parsnip.

A large black dog is sniffing around, scavenging for food.  The dog charges up
to you and starts snapping at your heels.

>TAKE CARROT
The dog growls at you so fiercely as your hand approaches the carrot that you
decide you’d better leave it alone.

>SHOOT THE DOG
(with the drik)
The dog lets out a startled whine, then topples over with legs splaying.  His
legs give a final couple of twitches, and then he lies still.

>TAKE CARROT
Taken.

>TAKE PARSNIP
Taken.

>ENTER SHED
(first opening the hut door)

Inside the hut
Two people standing inside this tiny hut would be cramped; three would be
excessively intimate.  It is almost completely bare apart from a small hook
fixed to the west wall.

A folded piece of cloth lies on the floor of the hut.

A fishing rod is leaning against the wall.

On the small hook is a small iron key.

There’s a faint cheesy smell from somewhere.

>TAKE CLOTH
Taken.

There’s a faint cheesy smell from somewhere.

>UNFOLD CLOTH
You unfold the piece of cloth.  Inside the cloth you find a small wedge of
cheese.

You can smell the cheese.

>TAKE ROD
Taken.

>X IT
It’s quite crude, comprising a long wooden pole with a line attached.

You can smell the cheese.

>PUSH BLUE STUD
A short beep indicates that you have opened a communications link with your
pilot.

“Hello, do you read me?” you ask.

“I read you, praefect,” the pilot’s voice replies.

(You could ask her about herself, or the Federation crisis, or tell her about
yourself, old Jeb, Leela, the town, the Elder, or the bug.)

>T ELDER
“I’ve had my meeting with the Elder,” you tell her, “He wasn’t all that
bothered about the Federation crisis, and he didn’t have much to say about how
things were going here, but he did mention something some old farmer said, and
I think it might be worth looking into.”

“What was that, sir?”  Sublieutenant Soolin inquires.

“Well, the Elder seemed inclined to dismiss it, and it could be rubbish, but it
sounded like the old farmer saw something that could just possibly have been an
unauthorised shuttle landing,” you tell her.

“If someone is making an unauthorised visit here, I suppose that’s something
you need to investigate, sir,” Sublieutenant Soolin acknowledges dubiously.

“Quite,” you concur.

You can smell the cheese.

>T OLD JEB
“I’m not sure how much credence I should give to the Elder’s report of what the
old farmer thought he saw, but maybe I should see if I can find out any more,”
you say.

“Whatever you think, sir,” she agrees.

>BYE
“Over and out,” you say.

“Over and out, sir,” she confirms, just before the comms link goes dead.

>TAKE KEY
Taken.

>X IT
It’s an old-fashioned key, with teeth.

You can smell the cheese.

>UNSCREW HOOK
You unscrew the hook from the wall of the hut and take it.

>ATTACH HOOK TO LINE
You attach the hook to the line.

>OUT
Market Area
This fenced-in area of a few dozen square metres looks like it might be used
for a market, both from the rubbish that’s been left lying around, and the
impress in the muddy ground of what might be stalls or tables.  A small shed
stands near the centre of the area, with a trestle table off to one side.  Gaps
in the fence allow egress to the south and southeast, as well as north along
the bank of the river.

The dog is lying unconscious on the ground.

>X RUBBISH
Scraps of rotten fruit and vegetables mingle with bits of straw and mud, none
of it any use for anyone but worms.

You can smell the cheese.

>SEARCH RUBBISH
You find a little worm wriggling among the scraps.

>TAKE WORM
Taken.

>ATTACH WORM TO HOOK
Done.

>S
West End of Town
The muddy street from the centre of the town to the east ends at a ramshackle
wooden bridge that has unfortunately fallen into a terminal state of disrepair,
leaving no other means of crossing the river.  A large wooden barn stands
immediately to the south, next to a pair of tumbledown shacks, while on the
north side of the street is a rough enclosed area that looks like it’s probably
some sort of market.  Behind the market the land climbs up towards the distant
forest.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>W
No one can cross the bridge in its present state, and there doesn’t seem to be
any other way across the river.

>FISH IN RIVER WITH ROD
What good luck!  After a few minutes you get a bite and manage to land a small
trout.

>UNLOCK DOOR WITH IRON KEY
Unlocked.

>S
(first opening the barn door)

Inside the Barn (in the dark)
Hardly any light finds its way in here, apart the little that leaks in through
the doorway to the north, so you can discern little except vague shapes in the
large dark space.

There’s a faint cheesy smell from somewhere.

>PUSH GREEN STUD
The drik lights up.

Inside the Barn
This vast barn looks like it might be used as storage space for the market
opposite.  A ladder leads up to a high platform at the south end.  On the east
wall is a large shutter.

An old brown sack lies abandoned by the wall.

>X SACK
It’s just a rough old brown sack, but it is quite large.

>LOOK IN SACK
The old brown sack contains an apple.

>PUT FOOD IN SACK
parsnip: Done.

small wedge of cheese:
(first taking the small wedge of cheese from the piece of cloth)
Done.

carrot: Done.

>PUT ID CARD AND BUG IN LEFT POCKET
ID card: Done.
tiny black bug: Done.

>OPEN SHUTTER
Opened.

>UP
You start to climb the ladder, but as you’re about half way up, a rung gives
way beneath you; you fall onto the next one down and that breaks too, and then
you tumble back down to the ground, bringing the bottom half of the ladder with
you as it crumbles into a heap of fragments.

>N
West End of Town
The muddy street from the centre of the town to the east ends at a ramshackle
wooden bridge that has unfortunately fallen into a terminal state of disrepair,
leaving no other means of crossing the river.  A large wooden barn stands
immediately to the south, next to a pair of tumbledown shacks, while on the
north side of the street is a rough enclosed area that looks like it’s probably
some sort of market.  Behind the market the land climbs up towards the distant
forest.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>N
Market Area
This fenced-in area of a few dozen square metres looks like it might be used
for a market, both from the rubbish that’s been left lying around, and the
impress in the muddy ground of what might be stalls or tables.  A small shed
stands near the centre of the area, with a trestle table off to one side.  Gaps
in the fence allow egress to the south and southeast, as well as north along
the bank of the river.

The dog is lying unconscious on the ground.

The drik light goes out to conserve power.

>PUSH TABLE S
West End of Town
The muddy street from the centre of the town to the east ends at a ramshackle
wooden bridge that has unfortunately fallen into a terminal state of disrepair,
leaving no other means of crossing the river.  A large wooden barn stands
immediately to the south, next to a pair of tumbledown shacks, while on the
north side of the street is a rough enclosed area that looks like it’s probably
some sort of market.  Behind the market the land climbs up towards the distant
forest.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

You push the trestle table into the west end of the town.

>PUSH TABLE S
Inside the Barn
This vast barn looks like it might be used as storage space for the market
opposite.  The top half of a broken ladder is attached to a high platform at
the south end.  On the east wall is a large shutter.

An old brown sack lies abandoned by the wall.

The old brown sack contains an apple, a parsnip, a small wedge of cheese, and a
carrot.

You can smell the cheese.

You push the trestle table into the barn.

>STAND ON TABLE
Okay, you’re now standing on the trestle table.

You can smell the cheese.

>UP
From the trestle table you manage to reach the bottom rung of the remaining
part of the ladder and haul yourself up onto the platform.

Loft
The loft is little more than a storage platform running the width of the barn,
about three metres deep, in the space under the rafters.  At the eastern end of
the platform a large wooden box is fixed to the wall, next to a pile of hay in
the corner.

A black cat is lying on top of the box.

>X CAT
It’s a large cat, black all over.  It is lying on the large wooden box.

>TAKE CAT
The cat hisses at you, scratches your hands, and wriggles out of your grasp.

>OPEN BOX
The cat hisses and scratches at your hand as you try to open the box.

>GIVE TROUT TO CAT
The cat snatches the trout from your grasp and leaps onto the floor.

(Your score has just increased by two points.)

>OPEN BOX
Opening the large wooden box reveals a lettuce, a piece of ham, a small loaf of
bread, and two tomatoes.

>TAKE FOOD
small loaf of bread: Taken.
tomato: Taken.
tomato: Taken.
piece of ham: Taken.
lettuce: Taken.

>X HAY
The hay is all piled up in the corner.

>SEARCH HAY
Under the pile of hay is a pear.

>TAKE PEAR
Taken.

>X RAFTERS
The rafters are simply wooden beams running east to west above your head.  The
southernmost one looks a little misshapen.

>X SOUTHERNMOST RAFTER
There’s a lump near the east end of the southernmost rafter.

>X LUMP
It’s roughly cube-shaped but it’s hard to make out without better light.

>POINT DRIK AT LUMP
Okay, you point the drik at the lump.

>PRESS GREEN STUD
The drik lights up.  In the direct light of the drik you can see that the lump
is actually a black cube placed on the rafter.

>X CUBE
All you can see from here is that it’s a black cube.

>TAKE CUBE
The small black cube is out of reach.

>THROW PEAR AT CUBE
The pear strikes the small black cube and both pear and small black cube fall
to the floor.

The drik light goes out to conserve power.

>TAKE PEAR AND CUBE
pear: Taken.
small black cube: Taken.

>X CUBE
The small black cube looks like it’s made of some kind of shiny plastic, and
seems featureless apart from the small slot in the side.  Whatever it is, it
looks more like the product of offworld technology than something that belongs
on Elysium.

>POINT DRIK AT CUBE
The drik blade emits a short series of rapid amber flashes, confirming your
suspicions: the cube is some sort of receiving device.

(Your score has just increased by two points.)

>X SLOT
It’s about 8mm long.  It contains a black datatab.

>DOWN
Inside the Barn
This vast barn looks like it might be used as storage space for the market
opposite.  The top half of a broken ladder is attached to a high platform at
the south end.  On the east wall is a large shutter.

The trestle table is positioned next to the ladder.

An old brown sack lies abandoned by the wall.

The old brown sack contains an apple, a parsnip, a small wedge of cheese, and a
carrot.

You can smell the cheese.

>PUT FOOD IN SACK
pear: Done.
tomato: Done.
tomato: Done.
lettuce: Done.
small loaf of bread: Done.
piece of ham: Done.

You can smell the cheese.

>TAKE SACK
Taken.

You can smell the cheese.

>N
West End of Town
The muddy street from the centre of the town to the east ends at a ramshackle
wooden bridge that has unfortunately fallen into a terminal state of disrepair,
leaving no other means of crossing the river.  A large wooden barn stands
immediately to the south, next to a pair of tumbledown shacks, while on the
north side of the street is a rough enclosed area that looks like it’s probably
some sort of market.  Behind the market the land climbs up towards the distant
forest.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>E
Town Centre
This is the centre of the town, such as it is.  The main street, if it can be
called a street, runs east and west from here, crossing a track that runs north
and south.  To the northwest is a market area, opposite a large barn on the
south side of the street, while to the east the street runs between a small
white building (on its south side) and a large wooden hall (on its north).

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

You can smell the cheese.

>N
Hillside above the Town
The grassy hillside slopes gently down towards the small town below, which is
surrounded by farmland and bordered by a river to the west.  The centre of the
town lies straight down the slope to the south. Just up the slope to the north
is the edge of the forest, which can also be entered to the northwest.

>N
Edge of the Forest
The main north-south track runs wide and straight here.  The trees are more
widely spaced, so that you could easily wander among them on either side of the
main track.  To the south they become sparser still, indicating that the edge
of the forest lies that way.

You can smell the cheese.

>W
Thinning Forest
Dappled light plays through the sparsely spaced trees that thin out even more
towards the southeast, where the forest ends.  In principle you could walk in
any direction amongst these autumnal trees, but one direction looks much the
same as any other, so you could all too easily get lost, except that you know
that the way back to the main path is to the east.

>E
Edge of the Forest
The main north-south track runs wide and straight here.  The trees are more
widely spaced, so that you could easily wander among them on either side of the
main track.  To the south they become sparser still, indicating that the edge
of the forest lies that way.

>N
Heart of the Forest
Alien foliage clogs the ground between the trees that crowd around you on every
side.  The main trail heads straight off to the north and snakes through the
trees to the south.  You can’t see any side trails as such, but there may be
the odd gap in the trees through which you could pass.

>X TREES
You never were much of a country boy, so you can’t identify the types of trees
with any precision.  So far as you can tell most of the trees in this part of
the forest are some variety of conifer; in any case they are tall and green and
apparently untouched by the onset of autumn.  As you examine the trees more
closely, you see a narrow gap to the west you could just squeeze through.

You can smell the cheese.

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>W
You squeeze through the gap, and then blunder around in the undergrowth for a
while before hitting on another path.

Narrow Path
You seem to have found your way onto a different path from the one you just
left.  For one thing it looks narrower, and for another it leads west and
southeast from here.  The trees also look different from the ones you saw
before; there’s a gap through them just to the east, through which you’ve just
emerged.

>W
Clearing
It looks as if the forest is gradually encroaching on this clearing, with the
line of trees advancing slowly but steadily towards its centre year by year.
Right now, it’s still quite large, with a clear path running out to the east,
and another to the west.  A closer examination reveals what looks like the
rotting remains of several buildings, now heavily overgrown and scarcely
jutting about ground level, apart from the remains of a white stone building,
the walls of which are more or less still standing.  This building stands just
to the south, while the clearing continues a short way to the north.

>S
Inside the Stone Building
The single room inside the building is open to the sky and mostly full of
rubble.  In the one corner that remains reasonably accessible, the southwest
corner, a triangular light fitting remains near what would once have been the
ceiling.  The doorless exit lies to the north.

An old metal crate sits in the southwest corner.

A battered cabinet lies half-buried under the rubble in the northeast corner of
the room.

>X CABINET
Most of it is buried under the rubble, but the parts you can make out are
painted blue.  It’s closed.

You can smell the cheese.

>OPEN CABINET
The rubble prevents you getting at the cabinet to open it.

>MOVE RUBBLE
There’s far too much rubble to shift it all, and the pieces of rubble covering
the cabinet are too large to move.

>X CRATE
The large metal crate was once painted dark green, and some of the paint
remains between the patches of rust.  The dust on the floor round the crate
looks as if it may have been recently disturbed.  It’s closed.

>OPEN CRATE
Opening the metal crate reveals a mallet and some smelly rags.

>TAKE RAGS AND MALLET
smelly rags: Taken.
mallet: Taken.

>BREAK RUBBLE WITH MALLET
You smash the larger pieces of rubble covering the cabinet with the mallet.

>MOVE RUBBLE
You manage to move the shattered pieces of rubble off the cabinet.

>OPEN CABINET
Opening the battered cabinet reveals a small book.

You can smell the cheese.

>TAKE BOOK
Taken.

>X BOOK
It’s a leather-covered diary, mouldering a bit at the edges, but still
readable.

>READ DIARY
It appears to be the diary of one Subcenturion Mark Villiers, who served as the
representative of the Imperial Police Corps on this planet in the early twenty-
eighth century, about a quarter of a millenium ago, when Elysium was newly
colonized.  It seems that Villiers was posted here to enforce a modicum of
imperial law and order on the new settlement, but that the settlers proved as
difficult back then as they have done ever since.

As you flick over the pages you find a series of accounts of ongoing friction
between the uncooperative Elders and the increasingly frustrated Villiers.
Some of the other natives seemed to have been reasonable enough, and as
Villiers’s account progresses it becomes clear that he was becoming
increasingly friendly with one young woman in particular, but the Elders were
consistently obstructive, insisting that the maintenance of law on Elysium was
their job and theirs alone, and no business of the Empire.  Even when news of
some petty crime did come Villiers’s way, the Elders would frustrate every
attempt the subcenturion made to investigate it.

On the last few pages the tone becomes even darker.  Villiers apparently
believed that someone – one of the settlers called Natasha with whom he had
become quite friendly – had been murdered, and he was determined to bring the
killer to justice.  The Elders proved particularly intransigent, denying that
any crime had taken place that they weren’t perfectly capable of taking care
of.  It’s clear from the diary that this made Villiers increasingly angry: if a
murder had been committed it was clearly a matter for the imperial authorities,
and all the settlers, Elders included, were duty-bound to co-operate.

On the final page, the entry for July 14 2722, the diary concludes with the
words, “I am now morally certain that Natasha was murdered, and I now have a
pretty good idea where to find her body and the proof I need to bring her
killers to justice.  Poor Natasha!  Always too much of a free spirit for this
narrow little planet, and now she’s paid the ultimate price for her broad-
mindedness and her enquiring mind.  But I am determined to bring matters to a
head, despite veiled threats from the Elders.

And now, I’m just off to follow up my latest lead; I’ll fill in the details on
my return.”

But it seems Subcenturion Villiers never did return, for there his account
ends.

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>CLOSE CRATE
Closed.

>MOVE CRATE
You move the metal crate aside, revealing a trapdoor beneath.

>X TRAPDOOR
It’s about 0.8 metres square, and currently closed.  Although the trapdoor is
as old and scuffed as the surrounding floor, the maglock fitted to it looks
new.

>OPEN TRAPDOOR
The trapdoor seems to be locked.

>N
Clearing
The trees that surround this large clearing seem to be gradually encroaching
upon it, though it will be a century or two yet before they finally overwhelm
it.  For now, the overgrown remains of several buildings are still visible,
with one solitary white stone building to the south still just about standing.
The clearing continues to the north, while paths lead out to east and west.

You can smell the cheese.

>W
You set off down the path to the west, and quickly arrive at the banks of a
river.

East Bank of River
The path from the east comes to an abrupt end on the bank of a sluggish river.
A couple of rotting posts sticking out of the ground are all that remains of
what may once have been a bridge, the former existence of which is also
suggested by a path disappearing into the trees on the opposite bank.  It may
once have been possible to walk south along the riverbank, but that direction
has become so overgrown that this would be quite impossible now, and though you
could walk a short distance north, it looks like the climb might quickly become
too steep.

Leela is bathing in the river.

Leela waves at you and laughs gaily.

>X LEELA
She’s a young woman of about twenty standard Earth years of age.  She is
swimming in the river.  So far as you can see she’s completely naked.

Leela swims a little nearer.

>TALK TO LEELA
Leela does not appear to hear you.

Leela splashes herself.

>Z
Time passes...

Leela gives a cheerful wave then ducks beneath the surface.

>Z
Time passes...

Leela swims a little closer to the shore.

>Z
Time passes...

Leela finally swims towards the bank and hauls herself ashore, standing naked
and dripping before you.  “Haven’t you ever seen a naked woman before?” she
laughs, seeing the startled expression on your face, “It’s perfectly natural,
you know – don’t tell me you sophisticated offworlders have a problem with
nudity!”  As you try not to blush, she continues, “But if it is a problem –
well, I was so sure you would bring me some new clothes I threw the old ones
away.  And I then managed to make myself some soap out of guba-bark and peka-
leaves, and I thought I’d give myself a good wash.  So – you did bring me some
food and clothes, didn’t you?”

>YES
“Yes, I’ve found something for you to wear and something for you to eat,” you
announce proudly.

“Well, let me see then, show me!” she asks eagerly.

>GIVE CHEESE TO LEELA
(first taking the small wedge of cheese from the old brown sack)
You give Leela the small wedge of cheese.  She smiles at you in gratitude, and
then starts chewing it hungrily.  Pretty soon, she has eaten it all.

“I really needed that!” she declares, “But to be honest, I’m still pretty
ravenous!”

>GIVE PEAR TO LEELA
(first taking the pear from the old brown sack)
You give Leela the pear.  She smiles at you in gratitude, and then starts
chewing it hungrily.  Pretty soon, she has eaten it all.

“That was good,” she tells you, “but I’m still quite hungry.”

>GIVE APPLE TO LEELA
(first taking the apple from the old brown sack)
You give Leela the apple.  She smiles at you in gratitude, and then starts
chewing it hungrily.  Pretty soon, she has eaten it all.

“I enjoyed that,” she smiles, “but to tell you the truth, I am still a little
peckish.”

>GIVE HAM TO LEELA
(first taking the piece of ham from the old brown sack)
You give Leela the piece of ham.  She smiles at you in gratitude, and then
starts chewing it hungrily.  Pretty soon, she has eaten it all.

“That’s better,” she announces, “I feel quite full now!”

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>E
Leela follows close behind you.  You walk a short way down to the path and
arrive back in the clearing.

Clearing
The trees that surround this large clearing seem to be gradually encroaching
upon it, though it will be a century or two yet before they finally overwhelm
it.  For now, the overgrown remains of several buildings are still visible,
with one solitary white stone building to the south still just about standing.
The clearing continues to the north, while paths lead out to east and west.

Leela enters the clearing with you.

“Whatever is that thing?”  Leela asks, pointing to the black cube.

>T CUBE
“This is a receiving device,” you tell her, “I found it in the big barn in
town.”

“What’s a receiving device?” she wonders, “Some sort of strange offworld
gadget?”

“That’s right,” you nod, “It lets people listen to what you’re saying from a
long way off – this one lets you record what someone’s saying.  It’s a piece of
offworld technology used to spy on people.”

Leela frowns at the black cube with a mixture of puzzlement and distaste, “But
who could have put it there?  Did you see anyone in town?”

>NO
“No – no one but the Chief Elder, that is,” you reply.

“I don’t suppose he’d have anything to do with it,” Leela frowns.

>T CUBE
“This cube can only have been put there by someone from offworld,” you tell
her.

“Then it looks like you’ve got a problem,” she remarks.

>X LEELA
She’s a young woman of about twenty standard Earth years of age.  She’s stark
naked and dripping wet, but at least she looks a lot cleaner than before.  She
looks far from unattractive, but you’re more struck by how lean and athletic
her body looks.

“You haven’t told me anything about yourself,” Leela complains.  “Who are you?
What are you doing here?”

(You could tell her about yourself, or ask why she wants to know.)

>T YOURSELF
“My name’s Andrew Holt,” you tell her, “I’m a praefect in the Imperial
Sovereign Legion.  I’m just here to check on the Emperor’s behalf that
everything’s okay here.”

“Oh, right,” she frowns, “But what’s the Imperial Sovereign Legion, and who’s
the Emperor, and why’s he bothered about us anyway?”

(You could tell her about the Empire, or ask why she wants to know.)

>T EMPIRE
“The Emperor rules the Empire,” you begin, “well – he helps to, at any rate,
because there’s also the Senate...” seeing her begin to look a bit blank you
hastily move on, “There are lots of worlds like this, inhabited worlds I mean,
and the Empire rules all of them within a sphere a hundred parsecs in diameter.
That’s ...” you notice she looks puzzled again, so you explain vaguely, “That’s
a very big volume of space.  The population of the Empire is currently about
sixty-five billion.  Most of them live on our sixty-three major worlds, but
there are also hundreds of worlds like this one – we call them colonies and
settlements – where the population is much smaller.”

Leela frowns deeply, “But if the Empire has all those hundreds worlds, and all
those billions of people, why is it interested in the few thousand people who
live on Elysium?  Why are you bothering with us, Andrew?”

(You could explain imperial policy, or complain about her curiosity.)

>COMPLAIN
“You keep asking so many questions, Leela!” you complain.

“That’s me,” she grins, “Curiosity is my middle name!”

>N
Leela follows close behind you.

North Side of Clearing
Here the clearing is more overgrown than the main part of the clearing to the
south, and among the undergrowth you can see a series of mounds.

Leela enters the north side of the clearing with you.

“Something terrible happened here long ago,” Leela shudders, “I can feel it.
And just look at all those graves.” she turns to you with a sombre look, “We
heard stories...”

(You could tell her about yourself, the town, or Petroc, or ask her about
herself, her questions, the stories, the town, the market, meetings, Elysium,
old Jeb, or the mallet.)

>A STORIES
“Tell me about the stories you heard; what have they to do with the graves?”
you ask.

“Many years ago, before the time of our grandparents’ grandparents, men from
your Empire killed many of our people here – or so the old story goes.” she
tells you, “It was terrible – my people had nothing but sticks and stones,
while yours had magical weapons that killed people just by being pointed at
them – or so the old tales say.  I can still feel the terror when I walk near
these graves; it must have been ghastly!”

>X MOUNDS
The mounds are remarkably regular, all just under two metres long and set out
in straight rows.  These rows seem to continue among the trees to the north,
but there the ground has become too overgrown to allow close investigation.  A
closer inspection of the mounds suggests that they could well be old graves,
and including those that are starting to be concealed by the ever-encroaching
forest, there must be well over three dozen of them.  On one of the graves you
can just make out a weathered headstone.  One or two of the others nearby look
suspiciously bumpy.

“Tell me honestly,” Leela says suddenly, “Do you find me attractive?”

(You could say yes or no, or equivocate.)

>YES
“Yes, I do, Leela,” you tell her frankly, “In fact I think you’re absolutely
gorgeous!”

“Why, thank you, kind sir!” she beams, “That’s good, because you’re not so bad
yourself!”

>KISS LEELA
She lets you kiss her, then laughs, “Is that the best you can do?” and promptly
kisses you back.

>X HEADSTONE
The headstone is covered with dirt and moss, making it virtually impossible to
read the faded lettering that was once incised on it.

>CLEAN HEADSTONE
You wipe some of the dirt off the headstone, revealing most of the lettering
beneath.  The rather crude lettering reads:

SUBCENTURION MARK VILLIERS IPC

b.  4th April 2687
d.  14th July 2722

Slain in the Service of Justice and Empire

R.I.P.

“Mark Villiers,” Leela reads, “He’s been here a long time.  What do IPC and RIP
mean?”

“Imperial Police Corps and Rest in Peace,” you tell her.

“I wonder who he was and what he did to end up here, among all these other
graves,” she muses.

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

(You could ask her where she learned to read, tell her about yourself, the
town, or Petroc, or ask her about herself, her questions, the stories, the
town, the market, meetings, Elysium, old Jeb, or the mallet.)

>ASK HER WHERE SHE LEARNED TO READ
“Just as a matter of interest, Leela, where did you learn to read?” you ask, a
little suspiciously.

“My parents taught me,” she replies, laughing, “I know Elysium must seem very
backward to you, Andrew, but we’re not so backward that we don’t have reading
and writing!”

>T PETROC
“I met the Chief Elder and he denies any knowledge of you,” you say.

“That doesn’t surprise me,” she remarks, “I’m probably an embarrassment to him.
The Elders wouldn’t want you thinking there was any dissent in their primitive
paradise!”

>G
“The Chief Elder was very insistent that his people would never cast anyone
out,” you tell her.

“Well, he would say that, wouldn’t he!” she retorts, “The Elders don’t want you
to know how they really run this place!”

>A HERSELF
“How have you been surviving all this time?” you ask her.

“From the fruit and nuts I can gather from the forest, mainly,” she tells you,
“but there wasn’t that much here to start with, and I’m finding it harder and
harder to find enough.”

>X MALLET
The handle has a rubber grip to enable you to get a firm hold, while the head
is wood tipped with steel.

>A MALLET
“This mallet I found in the crate, along with your old rags – how did it get
there?” you ask.

Looking momentarily shamefaced, Leela confesses, “I put it there because I
didn’t want anyone to know I had it.  It’s obviously too well made to have been
made on this world, and using offworld technology is regarded as a great crime
among my people, but it looked so useful I took it anyway.  I’ll be in terrible
trouble if anyone finds out I’ve got it, so you won’t tell anyone, will you?”

>NO
“No, I won’t tell anyone,” you promise.

“Thank you” she smiles tenderly, “I knew you looked kind, Andrew.”

>X MALLET HANDLE
The rubber grip is orange, and covers most of the handle.  A closer inspection
of the end of the handle shows the words “Made on Paran” inscribed there.

“I feel nice and clean now,” Leela remarks, “but I don’t seem to be drying off
as fast as I’d hoped.  I don’t suppose you’ve found anything I could dry myself
with?”

>GIVE LEELA THE TOWEL
Leela grabs the towel off you eagerly, saying, “Hey, thanks, this is just what
I need!”

She gives herself a good rubbing over with the towel from head to foot, and in
less than a minute she’s completely dry.

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>SHOW HER THE DIARY
Leela takes the diary off you, and reads through it with a deepening frown.
“How sad!” she declares as she reaches the last page, “that poor Natasha – she
sounds a bit like me, really – I wonder what the Elders did to her.  And Mark
Villiers, the person who wrote this, that’s the man whose grave we just found,
isn’t it?  So we know how he ended up.  I wonder if he found justice for
Natasha first.”

She closes the diary and hands it back to you.

>SEARCH MOUNDS
You find the rim of an old steel helmet poking out of the top of one of the
mounds, and the end of a piece of wood jutting out of another.

“I hope you don’t make a habit of digging up graves!”  Leela remarks, “What did
you find?  Show me!”

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>TAKE HELMET
You manage to pull the helmet clear of the burial mound.

“Now I’m dry I could really do with something to wear,” Leela remarks.

>X HELMET
It’s battered and rusty, and obviously old.  It looks as if it was once green,
and on the front you can just make out a very faded golden eagle.  It looks
like it might have been an Imperial Marines helmet, but it’s certainly not the
current pattern.  If the helmet were in better condition, it would belong in a
military museum.

>S
Leela follows close behind you.

Clearing
The trees that surround this large clearing seem to be gradually encroaching
upon it, though it will be a century or two yet before they finally overwhelm
it.  For now, the overgrown remains of several buildings are still visible,
with one solitary white stone building to the south still just about standing.
The clearing continues to the north, while paths lead out to east and west.

Leela enters the clearing with you.

>X LEELA
She’s a young woman of about twenty standard Earth years of age.  Since,
freshly washed and dried, she’s clearly an attractive woman, you wouldn’t be a
normal red-blooded adult male if you weren’t at least a little aroused at the
sight of her naked body, but you’re also struck by her athletic poise and the
lean, muscular tone of her limbs.  The simple outdoor life of her farm has
obviously left her very fit, and her body clearly hasn’t suffered too much from
the deprivations she must have undergone since becoming an outcast.

Leela is carrying a fluffy pink towel.

>GIVE LEELA THE SHEET
“I couldn’t find any clothes, but I thought you might be able to make something
out of this,” you say, handing her the sheet.

She takes the sheet and tries folding it and wrapping it round her, but each
time she walks a few places, the sheet slips off again.

“It’s no good!” she laughs, “I can’t make it stay on!  But I’ll keep it anyway
– perhaps I can tear a hole it in and slip it over my head, or perhaps we can
come up with a way to fasten it.”

>GIVE LEELA THE PINS
“Here, I thought you could use these to pin the sheet round you somehow,” you
suggest, handing her the safety pins.

After a couple of tries, Leela apparently works out how to operate the safety
pins, then she folds the sheet and, with your help, manages to drape it round
her and over one shoulder, pinning it together in a couple of places so that it
stays in place.  Finally she does a little twirl to demonstrate her success –
and the sheet still remains in place.

“There, that’s better!” she beams.

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>X HER
She’s a young woman of about twenty standard Earth years of age.  Now that
she’s cleaned up and clothed in something better than filthy rags, she looks a
lot better than when you first saw her.  Indeed, she’s a remarkably attractive
young woman, with a beautifully formed oval face framed by a cascade of long
dark hair.

Leela is carrying a fluffy pink towel, and she’s wearing a sheet.

“You have really been very good to me,” Leela remarks, “You hardly know me, and
you’re obviously someone very important, and yet you’ve found the time to feed
me and clothe me.  I’m very grateful, of course, but it’s such a long time
since anyone’s been kind to me, and I feel – I feel more than gratitude.  But
what can I possibly do for a great man like you in return?”

(You could offer to take her offworld, or ask her for a relationship.)

>OFFER TO TAKE HER OFFWORLD
“I could do more for you,” you point out, “I could take you with me, offworld,
and find you a new home in the Empire.  There doesn’t seem to be much future
for you here!”

“Could you?” she asks, her eyes lighting up, “How?”

“I have a shuttle waiting nearby – that’s a kind of flying machine that can
take us off this planet.  Come with me and I’ll show you.”

“All right, then; whenever you’re ready to leave, I’ll come with you,” she
declares.

>S
Leela follows you inside.

Inside the Stone Building
The single room inside the building is open to the sky and mostly full of
rubble.  In the one corner that remains reasonably accessible, the southwest
corner, a triangular light fitting remains near what would once have been the
ceiling.  The doorless exit lies to the north.

An old metal crate sits by the wall, next to the trapdoor in the corner.

A battered steel cabinet squats in the northeast corner of the room.

Leela enters the building with you.

Leela walks over to the trapdoor, “Oh look!” she says, “There was a hatch under
that crate all the time!”  She tries to open the trapdoor, but without success,
“It’s no good,” she says, “I can’t budge it!  I wonder what’s down there!”

>X TRAPDOOR
It’s about 0.8 metres square, and currently closed.  Although the trapdoor is
as old and scuffed as the surrounding floor, the maglock fitted to it looks
new.

>X MAGLOCK
It’s basically a small square of steel in two halves, one half fixed to the
trapdoor and the other to the floor.  It looks like it’s been newly fitted.

“Will I ever see you again, Andrew?”  Leela asks you, a little sadly, “How
often do you come here?”

(You could explain imperial visits, ask why she wants to know, or complain
about her curiosity.)

>TELL LEELA ABOUT MAGLOCK
“You’re trying to change the subject again, Andrew,” she complains, “I was
asking how often you came here!”

>X LIGHT FITTING
All that’s left of the light fitting is a small metal triangle – not much more
than a bare shelf – high up in the southwest corner.

>EXPLAIN IMPERIAL VISITS
“I don’t know if I’ll ever come back to Elysium again, Leela,” you tell her,
“The Empire sends someone about once every four months, but I don’t know if
it’ll be me next time.”

“I see,” she says, “Just my luck – the first decent man I’ve seen for months
comes along, and then he just walks out of my life again.”  She frowns
thoughtfully for a moment, then adds, “But you don’t really come alone, do you?
I suspect you have lots of soldiers with you up in that big ship of yours,
ready to pounce on us if we get out of line!”

(You could tell her about your ship, ask why she wants to know, or complain
about her curiosity.)

>T YOUR SHIP
“The ship that brought me here – the one that’s still oribiting, I mean – is
only a small one, a frigate,” you tell her, “It can’t carry very many marines –
no more than a squad, about a dozen men.”

“What’s a frigate?” she asks.

(You could explain what a frigate is.)

>EXPLAIN WHAT A FRIGATE IS
“It’s basically a patrol vessel,” you tell her, “It can travel very fast, but
it’s only lightly armed.  It’s a bit bigger than the smallest class of patrol
vessel, the corvette, but it’s small as warships go, and not very powerful.”

“Why did you come in something so small?” she wants to know.

“This job doesn’t need anything bigger,” you shrug, “Besides, our line-of-
battle warships have better things to do.”

“Such as?” she asks.

“Well, there’s a bit of a crisis on at the moment,” you point out.

“What crisis?”  Leela wants to know.

>T CRISIS
“The so-called Free Trade Federation of Paran is another large grouping of
worlds, a bit like the Empire,” you explain, “Except that they’ve taking a
somewhat sinister turn.  Tension between the Empire and the Federation has been
growing for years, but now it looks like it might come to war.”

“And with this big bad threat hovering over you, you’re still bothering with
poor little Elysium?”  Leela asks.

“We’re doing our best to maintain our regular visits, though our resources are
a little stretched,” you tell her.

“I see,” she says.

>STAND ON CRATE
When you stand on the crate you catch sight of something sitting on the light
fitting.

>X LIGHT FITTING
All that’s left of the light fitting is a small metal triangle – not much more
than a bare shelf – high up in the southwest corner.  On the light fitting is a
small silver key.

>TAKE KEY
“Maybe you’d be able to reach whatever you’re after if you moved the crate back
into the corner,” Leela suggests.  You can’t quite reach the key from where
you’re standing.

>DOWN
Okay, you’re no longer on the metal crate.

>PUSH CRATE
You push the metal crate back into the corner, concealing the trapdoor once
more.

>STAND ON CRATE
(first getting in the southwest corner)
Okay, you’re now standing on the metal crate.

>TAKE KEY
“Have you found something?”  Leela calls up to you as you take the key, “What
is it?  Do let me have a look!”

>DOWN
Okay, you’re no longer on the metal crate.

“So have you finished what you came here to do?” asks Leela.

>NO
“No, there’s a few more things I need to do here before I’m through,” you tell
her.

>SHOW SILVER KEY TO LEELA
“This looks like it could be the key to the trapdoor!” you tell her, “Strange
that it should have been left so close by!”

“Try it, go on!”  Leela urges you.

>PUSH CRATE
You push the metal crate aside, revealing a trapdoor beneath.

>UNLOCK MAGLOCK WITH SILVER KEY
Unlocked.

>DOWN
(first opening the trapdoor)

“Oh!  You’ve managed to open it!”  Leela declares excitedly as the trapdoor
swings open, “I wonder what’s down there – let’s take a look!”

Leela stands in the southwest corner.

Leela follows close behind you.

Darkened Cellar
The light stealing in through the open trapdoor above reveals a steel ladder
leading back up, but the rest of this space is shrouded in gloom.

>LIGHT DRIK
The drik lights up.

“Gosh, that’s clever!”  Leela declares, “How did you manage that?”

Cellar
The cellar is about the same size as the room above, but in slightly better
condition.  The walls have suffered from centuries of damp, so that little of
the original white paint shows through the dark mould and damp stains.  The
only things of any significance to have survived the ravages of the years are a
tall metal cabinet in one corner and the ladder leading up to an open trapdoor
in another.

A large mattress lies on the floor in the middle of the room.

A rubber raft, currenly deflated, lies on the floor.

You see a dark green knapsack here.

Leela is standing nearby.

Leela walks round the cellar with an expression of considerable curiosity on
her face.  “This place looks old, really old,” she remarks, “I suppose it must
have been part of the original building, all those generations ago.”  She
pauses, with a thoughtful expression on her face, “But some of this stuff must
be newer than that, mustn’t it?  Take this mattress, it looks almost new!
Wouldn’t it have rotted away by now if it had been put here all those
generations ago when the building upstairs was still standing?  How curious!
Hm, I think I’ll give it a try.”

So saying, she lies down on the mattress, placing her hands behind her head.

“Gosh, this is comfy!” she declares, “Much nicer than the scratchy old straw
thing I had to use back home!  You want to know what I think?”

>YES
“Yes, I do; what do you think?,” you reply.

“Well, what I think is this,” she explains, “I reckon that building upstairs
was originally built for use by the Empire, right?”

“I reckon, so,” you agree, “It looks like it was abandoned centuries ago, but
it has the look of some sort of imperial office.”

“Right,” she continues, “But the Empire is still interested in Elysium, isn’t
it?  Obviously, otherwise you wouldn’t be here.  But maybe the Empire doesn’t
always want the Elders to know when they’re checking up on us, so it uses this
place as a secret base – that’s why they kitted out this basement.  What do you
think?”

(You could agree, or disagree.)

>DISAGREE
“No,” you shake your head, “I don’t buy it.  If the Empire were carrying out
clandestine operations here, I’d’ve been briefed about it.”

“Are you sure?” she asks.  When you merely grunt in reply, she continues, “As I
understand it, the only people you imperial offworlders are ever meant to see
here are the Elders; is that right?”

“Yes,” you nod, “But how did you know that?”

“Because I never met anyone but an Elder who’s ever spoken to an offworlder,”
she replies, “So that means the Elders get to control the way your people see
this world, and what they think is going on here.  Well, maybe it is just
wishful thinking on my part, but I’d like to think that your people are not
quite so easily duped.  But because there seems to be some kind of
understanding that the only people your people are meant to meet on this world
are the Elders – no doubt to spare the rest of us from offworld ‘corruption’ –
the only way you people are ever going to learn how things really are here is
by sending people to watch us in secret.  What do you think?”

(You could agree with her ideas, tell her that you suspect illegal settlers,
say you don’t know, or say you suspect her.)

>SAY YOU DON'T KNOW
“I don’t know,” you confess, “I’m keeping an open mind about it.”

“If you were keeping an open mind, you would accept my theory,” she retorts.

>LOOK UNDER MATTRESS
The floor under the mattress looks much the same as it does in the rest of the
room.

>TAKE KNAPSACK
Taken.

Leela yawns and then stands up again.  “Well, I can’t lie around all day,” she
remarks, “Found anything else interesting down here?”

>X IT
It looks reasonably new and of modern design.  There are no obvious identifying
marks but it looks like it could be either standard military issue or the sort
of thing sold in camping shops anywhere round the known galaxy, though the lack
of any trademark makes it seem unlikely that this is a consumer item.  It’s
closed.

>OPEN IT
Opening the dark green knapsack reveals a ration pack, a small round mirror,
and a small black comb.

>X MIRROR
It’s just a small round hand-mirror, in which you can see your face.  Its
casing is made of a rather tasteless shade of orange plastic, and there’s a
serial number stamped on the back.  A closer look at the casing reveals a
narrow crack running round its rim, suggesting there may be some way to open it
up.

>X COMB
It’s just an ordinary small black comb; but a closer inspection reveals a
couple of long dark hairs attached to it.

>X HAIRS
There’s only a couple of them, and they’re very fine, so it’s difficult to be
precise about their colour, but they’re both fairly long.

>GIVE COMB TO LEELA
(first taking the small black comb from the dark green knapsack)
Leela takes the comb off you and at once starts combing her hair with it as you
say, “That comb had a couple of long dark hairs on it – they looked like they
might be yours!”

She stops combing her hair and glances at the comb, then laughs, “Well, it
would have a few of my hairs on it now, wouldn’t it!”

>X RAFT
The raft, which is currently deflated, is made of some dark green rubbery
material.  The only marking is a small label bearing the manufacturer’s name.
Attached to the raft are a small red handle and a small green handle.

>X LABEL
The label on the raft reads “Relda Raft Corp. – Mark IV Inflatable”

>X GREEN HANDLE
It’s marked “Pull to inflate”.

>X RED HANDLE
It’s marked “Pull to deflate”.

>LOOK
Cellar
The cellar is about the same size as the room above, but in slightly better
condition.  The walls have suffered from centuries of damp, so that little of
the original white paint shows through the dark mould and damp stains.  The
only things of any significance to have survived the ravages of the years are a
tall metal cabinet in one corner and the ladder leading up to an open trapdoor
in another.

A large mattress lies on the floor in the middle of the room.

A rubber raft, currenly deflated, lies on the floor.

Leela is standing nearby.

>X CABINET
It looks old and battered enough to be part of the original furnishings,
although it’s still basically sound.  It’s closed.

>OPEN IT
A plain black jumpsuit hangs in the cabinet.

>TAKE JUMPSUIT
(first putting the drik in the purple belt to make room, putting the crumpled
piece of paper in your right pocket to make room, then putting the fishing rod
in the old brown sack to make room)
Taken.

>X IT
It’s a plain black jumpsuit of a modern cut, rather too small for you and
probably made for a woman.  A closer inspection reveals that it has a single
small pocket.

>LOOK IN JUMPSUIT POCKET
(first opening the jumpsuit pocket)
The jumpsuit pocket contains an orange datatab.

>TAKE ORANGE DATATAB
Taken.

>X IT
It’s a small square of orange plastic or polymer, about 7mm to a side.  By some
kind of molecular wizardry, the precise technical details of which escape you,
it’s capable of holding several terabytes of data.

>SHOW IT TO LEELA
“I found this in the pocket of the jumpsuit I found here,” you tell her,
holding out the little orange datatab.

“What a funny little thing!” she declares, taking it and turning it over in her
palm.  She tries putting it between her teeth and biting it, “It’s no good for
eating, is it?  Oops!” she fumbles with it and it falls from her grasp.

>TAKE ORANGE DATATAB
Taken.

>LOOK BEHIND CABINET
Behind the tall metal cabinet is a paddle.

>TAKE PADDLE
(first putting the dark green knapsack in the old brown sack to make room)
Taken.

>TAKE RAFT
(first putting the black jumpsuit in the old brown sack to make room)
Taken.

>GIVE JUMPSUIT TO LEELA
(first putting the small black cube in the old brown sack to make room, putting
the mallet in the old brown sack to make room, then taking the black jumpsuit
from the old brown sack)
“I found this; it should be better than that sheet,” you tell her, handing her
the jumpsuit.

She takes it and fumbles with it a bit, evidently not having seen a garment
quite like it before.  She’s on the point of handing back when you insist, “No,
do try it on.  It’ll keep you nice and warm, and it’ll be much harder wearing
than anything else you’ll find on this planet.”

“Well...” she begins.

“That sheet will soon be torn and dirty,” you point out, “and it can’t be that
warm.  This will wear much better and keep you nice and snug.”

Just to encourage her along, you start to unfasten one of the safety pins
securing her sheet.  She pushes your hand aside and completes the job herself,
dropping the pins and shrugging the sheet off onto the ground.  Then she picks
up the jumpsuit again and stares at it in some bemusement.

“Here, let me help,” you offer, showing her where to put her arms and legs.

After a bit of a struggle and a lot of laughs, you help her into the jumpsuit.
She twists round a few times as if trying the garment out, then turns to you
and smiles, “Well, at least it fits quite well!”

>UP
Leela follows you up the ladder.

Inside the Stone Building (standing in the southwest corner)
The single room inside the building is open to the sky and mostly full of
rubble.  In the one corner that remains reasonably accessible, the southwest
corner, a triangular light fitting remains near what would once have been the
ceiling.  The doorless exit lies to the north.

A battered steel cabinet squats in the northeast corner of the room.

An old metal crate sits by the wall, next to the trapdoor in the corner.

Leela scrambles up through the trapdoor after you.

>NORTH
(first getting out of the southwest corner)

Leela gets out of the southwest corner.

Leela follows close behind you.

Clearing
The trees that surround this large clearing seem to be gradually encroaching
upon it, though it will be a century or two yet before they finally overwhelm
it.  For now, the overgrown remains of several buildings are still visible,
with one solitary white stone building to the south still just about standing.
The clearing continues to the north, while paths lead out to east and west.

Leela enters the clearing with you.

>W
Leela follows close behind you.  You set off down the path to the west, and
quickly arrive at the banks of a river.

East Bank of River
The path from the east comes to an abrupt end on the bank of a sluggish river.
A couple of rotting posts sticking out of the ground are all that remains of
what may once have been a bridge, the former existence of which is also
suggested by a path disappearing into the trees on the opposite bank.  It may
once have been possible to walk south along the riverbank, but that direction
has become so overgrown that this would be quite impossible now, and though you
could walk a short distance north, it looks like the climb might quickly become
too steep.

Leela reaches the east bank of the river with you.

>DROP RAFT
Dropped.

The drik light goes out to conserve power.

>INFLATE RAFT
There’s a hiss of rushing air as the raft inflates.

>PUT RAFT IN RIVER
(first putting the helmet in the old brown sack to make room, putting the white
pillowcase in the old brown sack to make room, putting the diary in the old
brown sack to make room, putting the purple datatab in your left pocket to make
room, putting the piece of cloth in your left pocket to make room, putting the
paddle in the old brown sack to make room, then taking the inflated rubber
raft)
You lower the raft into the water.

“You’re not planning to go anywhere in that thing, are you, Andrew?”  Leela
protests in horror, “It looks so flimsy!  Look, you’re the first decent guy
I’ve met in ages, so I’m not going to let you drown yourself!”

So saying, she takes the raft back out of the water.

>T RAFT
“Don’t be silly, Leela,” you plead, “I need to cross the river and I’m sure the
raft is a perfectly safe way to do it – it’s not that far across, after all!”

“You’re the one being silly, Andrew!” she complains, “Maybe that toy raft would
be safe in a millpond or a paddling-pool, but there’s a strong current on that
river – it’s much more dangerous than you realize!”

>E
Leela follows close behind you.  You walk a short way down to the path and
arrive back in the clearing.

Clearing
The trees that surround this large clearing seem to be gradually encroaching
upon it, though it will be a century or two yet before they finally overwhelm
it.  For now, the overgrown remains of several buildings are still visible,
with one solitary white stone building to the south still just about standing.
The clearing continues to the north, while paths lead out to east and west.

Leela enters the clearing with you.

Leela lets the raft fall to the ground.

>E
Leela follows close behind you.  You set off down the path to the east, and
continue straight on until the point where it starts to bend.

Narrow Path
A narrow path, rather faint to the southeast but becoming clearer to the west,
bends through the trees at this point.  It may also be possible to squeeze
through the gap to the east.

Leela walks along the narrow path with you.

>E
Leela follows close behind you.

Heart of the Forest
Alien foliage clogs the ground between the trees that crowd around you on every
side.  The main trail heads straight off to the north and snakes through the
trees to the south.  You can’t see any side trails as such, but apart from the
main path, the only gap through the trees that looks passable here is the one
directly to the west.  It’s pretty narrow, but you could just squeeze through
it.

Leela enters the heart of the forest with you.

>N
Leela follows close behind you.

Dirt Track
The dirt track runs a short way north up to a ridge, just beyond which lies the
hollow where your shuttle landed; to the south the track disappears into a
sizeable forest.  There are fields either side of the track, but they look
overgrown and untended.

Leela walks along the dirt track with you.

>N
Leela follows close behind you.  You walk back up over the ridge, and descend
into the hollow on the far side.

Hollow
This grassy hollow, about thirty metres across, looks like it might once have
been an impact crater.  A steep slope rises just to the west, while a trail of
sorts leads north and south.

Your shuttle rests in the middle of the hollow.

Leela enters the hollow with you.

Leela clutches at you in alarm at the sight of the white shuttle.

>ENTER SHUTTL
Leela clasps your hand, looking at you anxiously, “I don’t think I can do
this,” she says, “That big machine scares me – and so does leaving this world –
it’s the only world I know!”

>PUSH LEELA INTO SHUTTLE
Leela wrestles herself free of your clumsy attempts to force her into the
shuttle with surprising strength and dexterity.

“No, Andrew!” she cries, “What do you think you’re doing?”

>T SHUTTLE
“That shuttle is perfectly safe, Leela,” you assure her, “It brought me here
safely enough!”

“No, Andrew,” she shakes her head vigorously, “it’s not right, it’s not
natural, it’s a horrid, horrid – machine!”

>A SHUTTLE
“Why are you so bothered by the shuttle because it’s a machine, Leela?” you
asked, “I didn’t think you were so sold on the Elders’ technophobic
propaganda!”

“I’m not, Andrew,” she assures you, “but that machine – the very idea of a
machine that flies – it’s contrary to everything I know, everything I’ve been
brought up with!”

>S
Leela follows close behind you.

Dirt Track
The dirt track runs a short way north up to a ridge, just beyond which lies the
hollow where your shuttle landed; to the south the track disappears into a
sizeable forest.  There are fields either side of the track, but they look
overgrown and untended.

Leela walks along the dirt track with you.

>S
Leela follows close behind you.  You set off down the track and after a few
minutes’ walk you find yourself deep in the heart of the forest.

Heart of the Forest
Alien foliage clogs the ground between the trees that crowd around you on every
side.  The main trail heads straight off to the north and snakes through the
trees to the south.  You can’t see any side trails as such, but apart from the
main path, the only gap through the trees that looks passable here is the one
directly to the west.  It’s pretty narrow, but you could just squeeze through
it.

Leela enters the heart of the forest with you.

>S
Leela follows close behind you.  The path twists and turns through the trees,
but broadly continues south.

Edge of the Forest
The main north-south track runs wide and straight here.  The trees are more
widely spaced, so that you could easily wander among them on either side of the
main track.  To the south they become sparser still, indicating that the edge
of the forest lies that way.

Leela reaches the edge of the forest with you.

>S
“I can’t follow you into the town,” says Leela, “I daren’t be spotted there.
I’ll have to wait for you here.”  She stands still and gives you a little wave
as you walk away.

Hillside above the Town
The grassy hillside slopes gently down towards the small town below, which is
surrounded by farmland and bordered by a river to the west.  The centre of the
town lies straight down the slope to the south. Just up the slope to the north
is the edge of the forest, which can also be entered to the northwest.

>S
You walk down the slope into the centre of the town.

Town Centre
This is the centre of the town, such as it is.  The main street, if it can be
called a street, runs east and west from here, crossing a track that runs north
and south.  To the northwest is a market area, opposite a large barn on the
south side of the street, while to the east the street runs between a small
white building (on its south side) and a large wooden hall (on its north).

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>E
East End of Town
The north side of the street is occupied by a large wooden hall.  On the south
side is a neat single-storey white building (directly south) next to a two-
storey green house (to the southeast).  The street continues eastwards but
quickly peters out into a narrow farmtrack as it leaves the town, while to the
west it runs back towards the town centre.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>S
Sovereign Legion Office
This office is the about the only place on Elysium that resembles your idea of
civilization.  A large white desk, with a standard built-in console, rests
under the great golden eagle mounted on the east wall.  Behind the desk sits a
comfortable mock-leather chair, while a pair of smaller chairs, one red, the
other white, are positioned in front of the desk, presumably for the benefit of
visitors.  The main door is next to the window overlooking the street to the
north, while a staircase runs up against the south wall to a hatch in the
ceiling.  A second door is set in the east wall, to the left of the eagle,
while a large portrait of the Emperor hangs opposite.

>PUT ORANGE DATATAB IN SLOT
(the slot)
The screen displays: “Enter Password: ”

>X ORANGE MIRROR
It’s just a small round hand-mirror, in which you can see your face.  Its
casing is made of a rather tasteless shade of orange plastic, and there’s a
serial number stamped on the back.  A closer look at the casing reveals a
narrow crack running round its rim, suggesting there may be some way to open it
up.

>X BACK OF MIRROR
The serial number stamped on the back of the mirror is “IOHop80Advx”.

>ENTER IOHop80Advx ON CONSOLE
The console beeps and displays:

“ACCESS DENIED

Enter Password: ”

>ENTER xvbA08qoHOI ON CONSOLE
The screen displays: “Correct!”

The console screen displays

“My initial survey of the small inhabited district of Elysium indicates that
this world could well serve our interests in the event of war with the Empire.
The imperial authorities take a minimal interest in the inhabitants, and their
allegiance to the Empire appears equally minimal.  Moreover, the inhabitants
are unbelievably primitive in their lifestyle, and have no significant military
capacity.  An invasion by a single company of our troops would suffice to
conquer and hold this world.  The inhabitants could be forced into slave labour
(see below) and also used as hostages against any attempt by imperial forces to
retake the world.  Any slaughter of Elysians could then be represented as the
consequence of a bungled imperial military operation – indications are that
this would not be the Empire’s first military blunder on Elysium.

Elysium has no industry beyond the bare minimum required to support their
primitive farming methods.  Nevertheless, its agricultural assets would be
capable of sustaining a moderate-sized Federation force if placed under
Federation management and equipped with modern machinery.  Increased
productivity would allow us to employ the surplus native labour thereby created
in munitions factories to supply our forces; needless to say we should have to
set up such factories ourselves, but the natives, though primitive, do not seem
unduly stupid and could certainly be trained to work in such factories.

Such a scheme would enable us to sustain a sizeable fleet in the Elysium system
indefinitely, apart from an imperial counter-attack.  Holding an imperial world
deep in imperial space may be of both strategic and propaganda value to us.

Whether the capture of Elysium would in fact be strategically worthwhile is
beyond my brief to determine.  My initial survey indicates that it would be
tactically feasible.

Two further items of intelligence need to be determined before my investigation
is complete, however:
(1) How often the Empire comes to check up on Elysium.
(2) In what strength the Empire comes to check up on Elysium.

Squadleader Anita Johnson, FFIS.”

(Your score has just increased by four points.)

>TAKE ORANGE DATATAB
As you remove the orange datatab, the console screen goes blank.

>PUT BLACK TAB IN CONSOLE
(first taking the black datatab from the small slot)
The screen displays: “Enter Password: ”

>TAKE BLACK TAB
As you remove the black datatab, the console screen goes blank.

>PUT BLACK TAB IN BLACK CUBE
Done.

>N
East End of Town
The north side of the street is occupied by a large wooden hall.  On the south
side is a neat single-storey white building (directly south) next to a two-
storey green house (to the southeast).  The street continues eastwards but
quickly peters out into a narrow farmtrack as it leaves the town, while to the
west it runs back towards the town centre.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>W
Town Centre
This is the centre of the town, such as it is.  The main street, if it can be
called a street, runs east and west from here, crossing a track that runs north
and south.  To the northwest is a market area, opposite a large barn on the
south side of the street, while to the east the street runs between a small
white building (on its south side) and a large wooden hall (on its north).

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>N
Hillside above the Town
The grassy hillside slopes gently down towards the small town below, which is
surrounded by farmland and bordered by a river to the west.  The centre of the
town lies straight down the slope to the south. Just up the slope to the north
is the edge of the forest, which can also be entered to the northwest.

>NW
Thinning Forest
Dappled light plays through the sparsely spaced trees that thin out even more
towards the southeast, where the forest ends.  In principle you could walk in
any direction amongst these autumnal trees, but one direction looks much the
same as any other, so you could all too easily get lost, except that you know
that the way back to the main path is to the east, and that there’s another
path to the northwest.

>NW
You wander through the trees a short way, and then manage to pick up the path.

Narrow Path
A narrow path, rather faint to the southeast but becoming clearer to the west,
bends through the trees at this point.  It may also be possible to squeeze
through the gap to the east.

>W
Clearing
The trees that surround this large clearing seem to be gradually encroaching
upon it, though it will be a century or two yet before they finally overwhelm
it.  For now, the overgrown remains of several buildings are still visible,
with one solitary white stone building to the south still just about standing.
The clearing continues to the north, while paths lead out to east and west.

You see an inflated rubber raft here.

>TAKE RAFT
Taken.

>W
You set off down the path to the west, and quickly arrive at the banks of a
river.

East Bank of River
The path from the east comes to an abrupt end on the bank of a sluggish river.
A couple of rotting posts sticking out of the ground are all that remains of
what may once have been a bridge, the former existence of which is also
suggested by a path disappearing into the trees on the opposite bank.  It may
once have been possible to walk south along the riverbank, but that direction
has become so overgrown that this would be quite impossible now, and though you
could walk a short distance north, it looks like the climb might quickly become
too steep.

>PUT RAFT IN RIVER
You lower the raft into the water.

>ENTER RAFT
You clamber aboard the raft.  Okay, you’re now sitting in the inflated rubber
raft.

>PADDLE RAFT
(with the paddle)
(first taking the paddle from the old brown sack)
You paddle the raft with the paddle over to the west bank of the river.

On the River (sitting in the inflated rubber raft)
You are sitting in an inflatable raft that’s floating near the west bank of the
river.

>W
(first standing up, then getting out of the inflated rubber raft)

West Bank of River
There’s a clear view up and down the river from here, and it seems you could
walk some way along the bank to north and south, while an overgrown path
disappears off through the trees to the west.  A solitary wooden post sticking
out of the ground is all that remains of what may once have been a bridge.

The river contains an inflated rubber raft.

>X WOODEN POST
It’s a round post, about ten centimetres in diameter, broken off about half a
metre from the ground.

>TAKE POST
You manage to pull the post out of the ground.  Moving the solitary wooden post
reveals a plastic bottle (which contains a bright green liquid) underneath.

>DROP POST
Dropped.

>TAKE BOTTLE
Taken.

>X BOTTLE
It’s a clear plastic bottle of the sort that would be quite unremarkable on any
human-occupied world but here.  According to the label it contains “Magiclean
All-In-One Conditioning Shampoo and Body Cleanser (manufactured by Stellarchem,
a Harcourt Research Company)”.  It contains a bright green liquid.

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>X LIQUID
It’s bright green.

>DRINK IT
It might be toxic, for all you know.

>W
You battle your way along the overgrown path for a dozen metres or so, then
suddenly emerge into a field.

Overgrown Field
The path from the east emerges in an overgrown field bounded by forest to east
and south, a stream to the west, and a slope rising to the north.  The most
striking feature, however, is the strange green structure half-hidden next to
the trees to the south.

>X GREEN STRUCTURE
It’s hard to make out exactly what it is, since it’s covered by a dark green
tarpaulin.  Whatever it is it’s about three metres long and stands about two
metres high at its highest point.  If this was your homeworld you’d guess it
was a piece of farm machinery covered up to protect it from the elements, but
you don’t expect to find such things on Elysium.  On the other hand it looks
the wrong shape for a hayrick and a distinctly odd shape for a farm building.

>X TARPAULIN
You’re rather vague on what kind of materials are available to a society that
has deliberately turned its back on all post-industrial technology, but the
tarpaulin looks suspiciously like it’s been made out of one large piece of some
modern weatherproof fabric, and its dark green colour makes you think of
possible military applications.  Indeed, while not technically camouflage, its
colour hardly helps it stand out from its surroundings, and would make it quite
hard to spot from the air.  The tarpaulin is securely fastened to the ground
with a series of steel spikes leaving only a narrow gap between the tarpaulin
and the ground, far too small to crawl under.

>X SPIKES
There’s nothing particularly hi-tech about the spikes, they’re simply steel
rods with a flat head to which a mallet could be applied, a loop for securing
the tarpaulin ties, and (presumably) a spike on the end that’s been driven into
the ground.  Still, they all seem more-or-less identical, and look to you more
like the product of modern factory than of some backwoods blacksmith.

>UNTIE TIES
You unfasten three of the ties from their spikes; that should be enough.

>CRAWL UNDER TARPAULIN
You crawl under the tarpaulin.

Under the Tarpaulin (in the dark)
You can’t see much, but you’re aware that a large object is taking up most of
the space here.

>PRESS GREEN STUD
The drik lights up.

Under the Tarpaulin
Most of the space here is taken up with a large black object.  Otherwise you
are completely surrounded by the tarpaulin.

>X LARGE BLACK OBJECT
Although it’s a large object, nearly three metres long, it’s quite small for
what it is – a single-person shuttle (i.e. a craft for conveying someone
between an orbiting spaceship and the planetary surface).  Apart from a cryptic
sequence of tiny letters under the door, it is unmarked and painted black all
over, suggesting a desire for stealth.  You can’t immediately identify the
model, but you don’t think it’s an imperial one.

(Your score has just increased by three points.)

>X TINY LETTERS
The letters stencilled under the shuttle door are almost too tiny to make out.
By shining your drik directly at them you just manage to decipher them as
AHAYWEH.

>PRESS BLUE STUD
A short beep indicates that you have opened a communications link with your
pilot.

“Hello, do you read me?” you ask.

“I read you, praefect,” the pilot’s voice replies.

(You could ask her about herself, or tell her about the orange datatab,
yourself, the Federation crisis, Leela, the robot, the town, the Elder, old
Jeb, the black shuttle, the mallet, the raft, the plastic bottle, the receiving
device, the black datatab, or the bug.)

>T ORANGE DATATAB
“I found a datatab,” you say, “in the pocket of a black jumpsuit I found in the
basement of an old ruin in the forest.”

“Do you know what’s on it, sir?”

“Yes,” you reply,“It’s a report from a Federation agent working on Elysium,
suggesting that it would be tactically feasible for the Federation to invade
and use this planet as a base behind our lines in the event of war.”

“Goodness!”  Sublieutenant Soolin’s voice declares.

>T BLACK SHUTTLE
“I think I’ve just found how the spy who wrote the report I found on that
orange datatab got here,” you announce, “I’ve just found an unmarked black
shuttle parked in the middle of a field – hidden under a green tarpaulin.”

“Gosh!”  Sublieutenant Soolin declares, “That does seem pretty suspicious;
there’s certainly no one else scheduled to be visiting this world, so it must
be an illegal.”

>T MALLET
“I found this mallet in a ruined building in the forest,” you tell her, “the
handle is stamped ‘Made in Paran’!”

“That’s very suspicious, sir,” Sublieutenant Soolin replies, “what in seven
score solar systems is a mallet made on the Federation capital doing on
Elysium?”

“Quite, sublieutenant,” you agree.

>T RECEIVING DEVICE
“I found a receiving device in the barn in town,” you tell her, “It’s clearly
not Elysian technology.”

“Indeed not, sir,” she agrees, “And it raises the question of whether there’s a
transmitter nearby.”

>BYE
“Over and out,” you say.

“Over and out, sir,” she confirms, just before the comms link goes dead.

>OUT
Overgrown Field
The path from the east emerges in an overgrown field bounded by forest to east
and south, a stream to the west, and a slope rising to the north.  The most
striking feature, however, is the strange green structure half-hidden next to
the trees to the south.

>E
West Bank of River
There’s a clear view up and down the river from here, and it seems you could
walk some way along the bank to north and south, while an overgrown path
disappears off through the trees to the west.

You see a solitary wooden post here.  The river contains an inflated rubber
raft.

>ENTER RAFT
You clamber aboard the raft.  Okay, you’re now sitting in the inflated rubber
raft.

>E
You paddle the raft with the paddle over to the east bank of the river.

On the River (sitting in the inflated rubber raft)
You are sitting in an inflatable raft that’s floating near the east bank of the
river.

The drik light goes out to conserve power.

>E
(first standing up, then getting out of the inflated rubber raft)

East Bank of River
The path from the east comes to an abrupt end on the bank of a sluggish river.
A couple of rotting posts sticking out of the ground are all that remains of
what may once have been a bridge, the former existence of which is also
suggested by a path disappearing into the trees on the opposite bank.  It may
once have been possible to walk south along the riverbank, but that direction
has become so overgrown that this would be quite impossible now, and though you
could walk a short distance north, it looks like the climb might quickly become
too steep.

The river contains an inflated rubber raft.

>E
You walk a short way down to the path and arrive back in the clearing.

Clearing
The trees that surround this large clearing seem to be gradually encroaching
upon it, though it will be a century or two yet before they finally overwhelm
it.  For now, the overgrown remains of several buildings are still visible,
with one solitary white stone building to the south still just about standing.
The clearing continues to the north, while paths lead out to east and west.

Leela is walking towards you.

“Ah, there you are!” says Leela, “I wondered where you had got to!”

>SHOW BOTTLE TO LEELA
“Now look here, Leela,” you say sternly, “I found this bottle hidden just
across the river; I thought you said you washed yourself with some soap you
made out of grubby bark and puke leaves!”

“Guba-bark and peka-leaves,” she corrects you, “That’s right: so I did; you
don’t think I’d use that disgusting green goo, do you!”

>G
“It seems a pretty strange coincidence that I found this bottle hidden on the
other side of the river near the spot you were washing yourself,” you insist.

“So?  Coincidences happen, Andrew,” she shrugs, “I wouldn’t use anything on my
hair and body I hadn’t made myself – I value them too much!”

>T MALLET
“Where did you get the mallet?” you want to know.

Leela lets out a heavy sigh, then tells you, “I stole it.  It was just after I
was made an outcast, before I came to the forest.  I was on the run, moving
only by night, scrounging what I could from the farms I passed through.  I
found that mallet in an outbuilding, and thought it might come in useful, so I
took it.”

>SHOW HANDLE
Which handle do you mean, the drik handle, or the mallet handle?

>T MALLET
“Where was this farm where you found the mallet?” you ask.

Leela frowns thoughtfully, then points roughly to the southeast, “About a dozen
miles or so over that way, I think.”

>SHOW HER THE ORANGE TAB
“I’ve managed to read the orange datatab I found in the basement of the white
building,” you tell her.

“Really?” she asks, suddenly wary, “What did it tell you?”

>T BLACK SHUTTLE
“I found a black shuttle across the river,” you tell her, “I don’t think it
should be there – do you happen to know anything about it?”

Leela frowns, looks away for a moment, and repeatedly clenches and unclenches
her fists, as if trying to resolve a quandry.  Then at length she lets out a
heavy sigh and turns back to you, her manner suddenly different, as if she has
just grown older and taller.

“Okay,” she admits, “There’s no point in keeping up this pretence, is there?
That’s my shuttle you found, and I’m not an Elysian farm-girl, as I’m sure you
realize by now.  But it’s not as bad as you think, really it’s not.  I’m not a
– well, I’m an anthropologist from Earth.”  Before you can protest, she cuts
you off with a gesture, saying, “Yes – I know – I have no business being here.
But this is about the only place in the known galaxy where I can study such a
primitive culture in the field. so – what happens now?”

(You could ask why she lied before, ask which university she’s from, ask how
long she’s been here, say you don’t believe her, or show her the orange
datatab.)

>ASK HER WHY SHE LIED BEFORE
“Why did you lie to me before?” you ask.

“Because I shouldn’t be here, obviously,” she shrugs, “I’ve been trying to
learn about the natives by living like one of them, and I hoped I could get
away with passing myself off as one, but obviously it didn’t work.  So, as I
said: what happens now?”

(You could ask why she lied before, ask which university she’s from, ask how
long she’s been here, say you don’t believe her, or show her the orange
datatab.)

>ASK HER HOW LONG SHE'S BEEN HERE
“How long have you been here, Leela?” you want to know.

“Only a couple of weeks, praefect,” she assures you, “Not long enough to do any
harm to the natives, if that’s what you’re thinking.  In any case, that’s the
first rule of any anthropologist working in the field – don’t interfere with
the indigenous society you’re meant to be studying.  So, does that mean I get
off lightly?  You could just let me go, couldn’t you?  So, how about it?”

(You could ask why she lied before, ask which university she’s from, ask how
long she’s been here, say you don’t believe her, show her the orange datatab,
let her go, or arrest her.)

>ARREST HER
“I’m sorry, Leela, but I’m afraid I’m going to have to place you under arrest,”
you tell her, “We both know you shouldn’t be here, and my duty is plain: I have
to take you in for questioning.”

“Okay, I’ll come quietly...” she assures you, spreading her hands in a gesture
of surrender, and approaching as if to follow you back to your shuttle.  Then,
suddenly, she leaps at you, her hands clutching at your throat.  “...after hell
freezes over,” she rasps, as her grip tightens on your windpipe.

Leela makes a grab for your throat but you manage to throw her off.

“Is that the best you can do?  You’re a dead man!” she sneers.

>HIT HER
You fly at Leela with your fists, but she has no difficulty warding off your
blows.  She’s obviously much more adept at unarmed combat than you are.

Leela grabs the mallet from your grasp.

>SHOOT HER
(with the drik)
(first taking the drik from the purple belt)
Leela stiffens, an expression of momentary astonishment on her face, then with
a little moan she tumbles to the ground.

>TAKE LEELA
You manage to lift the unconscious Leela up and hoist her over your shoulder.

>E
You set off down the path to the east, and continue straight on until the point
where it starts to bend.

Narrow Path
A narrow path, rather faint to the southeast but becoming clearer to the west,
bends through the trees at this point.  It may also be possible to squeeze
through the gap to the east.

>E
Heart of the Forest
Alien foliage clogs the ground between the trees that crowd around you on every
side.  The main trail heads straight off to the north and snakes through the
trees to the south.  You can’t see any side trails as such, but apart from the
main path, the only gap through the trees that looks passable here is the one
directly to the west.  It’s pretty narrow, but you could just squeeze through
it.

>DROP LEELA
You lower Leela gently on to the main trail.

>S
The path twists and turns through the trees, but broadly continues south.

Edge of the Forest
The main north-south track runs wide and straight here.  The trees are more
widely spaced, so that you could easily wander among them on either side of the
main track.  To the south they become sparser still, indicating that the edge
of the forest lies that way.

>S
Hillside above the Town
The grassy hillside slopes gently down towards the small town below, which is
surrounded by farmland and bordered by a river to the west.  The centre of the
town lies straight down the slope to the south. Just up the slope to the north
is the edge of the forest, which can also be entered to the northwest.

>S
You walk down the slope into the centre of the town.

Town Centre
This is the centre of the town, such as it is.  The main street, if it can be
called a street, runs east and west from here, crossing a track that runs north
and south.  To the northwest is a market area, opposite a large barn on the
south side of the street, while to the east the street runs between a small
white building (on its south side) and a large wooden hall (on its north).

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>E
East End of Town
The north side of the street is occupied by a large wooden hall.  On the south
side is a neat single-storey white building (directly south) next to a two-
storey green house (to the southeast).  The street continues eastwards but
quickly peters out into a narrow farmtrack as it leaves the town, while to the
west it runs back towards the town centre.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>N
Inside the Hall
This seems to be a meeting hall of some sort, with rows of plain wooden benches
facing a crude stage at the northern end.  It’s unclear whether this place is
intended for religious or secular purposes; quite possibly it does duty for
both.  The overall effect is decidedly gloomy, even though a fair amount of
sunlight steals in through the unglazed windows and the open doorway to the
south.

Petroc is pacing up and down on the stage.

>SHOW DIARY TO PETROC
(first taking the diary from the old brown sack)
“Hello again!” you say.

“Oh, it’s you,” he grunts.

“I found this diary in the forest; I thought you might find it interesting,”
you tell him.

Petroc hesitates for a moment, then takes the diary from you and reads it
slowly.  At length, he looks up at you again, and remarks, “If you’re as clever
as you think you are, you should be able guess the rest.  This man Villiers
poked his nose in where it wasn’t welcome.  He came to a sticky end.
Eventually your people sent someone else along to find out what had happened to
him.  My ancestors believed justice had been done, but yours didn’t, so they
sent a gang of warriors here.  Things quickly got out of hand – some of our
young men went along to the old town with sticks and stones to chase your
warriors away, and your warriors retaliated with their weapons of terror.  It
was a massacre, a terrible bloody massacre, so terrible that even your
ancestors were ashamed of it.  Anyway, no one wanted the old town after that,
it had too many bad memories for all of us, so we abandoned it, and rebuilt
here – but still you wouldn’t leave us alone.”  He pauses, and looks at you
with something like pity as he hands the diary back to you, “So now you know –
all your great empire has done for us.”

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>A VILLIERS
“Why do you blame the Empire for that ancient massacre?” you want to know,
“From what Subcenturion Villiers says in his diary he was investigating a
murder!  And you say your ancestors killed him for that and that this was
justified?  No wonder the Empire sent in the marines!”

“You think so?” he asks, “You think these ‘marines’ of yours were justified in
massacring the folks that came to protest?  All right, maybe Villiers thought
he was doing his duty, maybe there were some misunderstandings, maybe our young
men got a bit overheated – but that doesn’t justify massacring them!”

>G
“How many people were killed in the massacre?” you ask.

“Only one or two of yours,” he tells you, “Several dozen of ours were killed
that day, and that’s before you start counting the wounded.  Infernal weaponry
against sticks and stones – what do you expect?”

>A MASSACRE
“What happened after the massacre?” you want to know.

“We abandoned the old town and dispersed,” the old man shrugs, “Your men left –
but we hadn’t seen the last of you.”

>G
“And you still remember that massacre?” you ask.

“It is one of the solemn traditions handed down among the Elders,” he tells
you, “lest we forget what your empire is really like.  But we do not trouble
our people with it.”

>G
Your Legion training tells you that it would be more diplomatic to let the
matter drop, now that you’ve ascertained Petroc’s version of the basic facts.
It sounds like Subcenturion Villiers was murdered in the course of
investigating another murder, and the Empire over-reacted – or at least the
marine commander on the spot did in the face of minor provocation.  The
incident reflects no credit on either Elysium or the Empire, but even though it
all happened over two centuries ago, it helps explain why relations between the
two are so awkward.

>T LEELA
“That woman I was telling you about, the one I came across in the forest.  You
remember, she claimed she was an outcast.  Actually, I now have reason to
believe she’s a Federation spy.  I found a strange shuttle just across the
river from the old town, which I think she was using as her camp. I’ve also
read a report, which I assume she wrote for her superiors, suggesting how the
Federation might come and take over this world and use your people for slave
labour. So it seems that the Federation may be planning to meddle on this
world.  Obviously we shall do all we can to prevent it, but in the meantime I
thought you should be warned.  At the very least, you might want to be on the
lookout for intruders.”

“We shall certainly do that, praefect,” he assures you.  “As for the rest –
imperial politics are not my concern.”

(Your score has just increased by one point.)

>S
Petroc resumes pacing around the stage.

East End of Town
The north side of the street is occupied by a large wooden hall.  On the south
side is a neat single-storey white building (directly south) next to a two-
storey green house (to the southeast).  The street continues eastwards but
quickly peters out into a narrow farmtrack as it leaves the town, while to the
west it runs back towards the town centre.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>S
Sovereign Legion Office
This office is the about the only place on Elysium that resembles your idea of
civilization.  A large white desk, with a standard built-in console, rests
under the great golden eagle mounted on the east wall.  Behind the desk sits a
comfortable mock-leather chair, while a pair of smaller chairs, one red, the
other white, are positioned in front of the desk, presumably for the benefit of
visitors.  The main door is next to the window overlooking the street to the
north, while a staircase runs up against the south wall to a hatch in the
ceiling.  A second door is set in the east wall, to the left of the eagle,
while a large portrait of the Emperor hangs opposite.

>TAKE BLACK TAB
Taken.

>PUT BLACK TAB IN SLOT
(the slot)
The screen displays: “Enter Password: ”

>ENTER AHAYWEH ON CONSOLE
The screen displays: “Correct!”

The console plays back a clear recording of you talking with Petroc, and with
Sublieutenant Soolin, and with the large black cat, and with Leela.  After a
brief pause you hear Leela effectively give herself away as she attacks you.

(Your score has just increased by three points.)

>TAKE BLACK TAB
As you remove the black datatab, the console screen goes blank.

>N
East End of Town
The north side of the street is occupied by a large wooden hall.  On the south
side is a neat single-storey white building (directly south) next to a two-
storey green house (to the southeast).  The street continues eastwards but
quickly peters out into a narrow farmtrack as it leaves the town, while to the
west it runs back towards the town centre.

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>W
Town Centre
This is the centre of the town, such as it is.  The main street, if it can be
called a street, runs east and west from here, crossing a track that runs north
and south.  To the northwest is a market area, opposite a large barn on the
south side of the street, while to the east the street runs between a small
white building (on its south side) and a large wooden hall (on its north).

The imperial flag flies over the white building.

>N
Hillside above the Town
The grassy hillside slopes gently down towards the small town below, which is
surrounded by farmland and bordered by a river to the west.  The centre of the
town lies straight down the slope to the south. Just up the slope to the north
is the edge of the forest, which can also be entered to the northwest.

>N
Edge of the Forest
The main north-south track runs wide and straight here.  The trees are more
widely spaced, so that you could easily wander among them on either side of the
main track.  To the south they become sparser still, indicating that the edge
of the forest lies that way.

>N
Heart of the Forest
Alien foliage clogs the ground between the trees that crowd around you on every
side.  The main trail heads straight off to the north and snakes through the
trees to the south.  You can’t see any side trails as such, but apart from the
main path, the only gap through the trees that looks passable here is the one
directly to the west.  It’s pretty narrow, but you could just squeeze through
it.

The unconscious Leela is lying on the main trail.

>TAKE LEELA
You manage to lift the unconscious Leela up and hoist her over your shoulder.

>N
Dirt Track
The dirt track runs a short way north up to a ridge, just beyond which lies the
hollow where your shuttle landed; to the south the track disappears into a
sizeable forest.  There are fields either side of the track, but they look
overgrown and untended.

>N
You walk back up over the ridge, and descend into the hollow on the far side.

Hollow
This grassy hollow, about thirty metres across, looks like it might once have
been an impact crater.  A steep slope rises just to the west, while a trail of
sorts leads north and south.

Your shuttle rests in the middle of the hollow.

>ENTER SHUTTLE
Inside the Shuttle
The inside of the shuttle is not exactly spacious; there’s room for the pilot
and three passengers, one beside the pilot and two behind.  The seats are
comfortable enough, but otherwise it’s all pretty basic.  There’s not much in
front of you except the forward window; the pilot has a bank of instruments.

Sublieutenant Soolin is sitting in the pilot seat.  Opening the passenger door,
you first set Leela down on the rear seat.

As you clamber into the flyer you sit yourself down on the front passenger
seat, next to the pilot.

“What in seven score solar systems are you doing with that young woman?”
Sublieutenant Soolin asks in astonishment.

(Your score has just increased by two points.)

(You could tell her about Leela, or refuse to answer.)

>T LEELA
“I met her in the forest,” you explain, “She asked me to find her some food and
clothing, but later on she attacked me.  I have reason to believe she’s a
Federation spy and she thought I was getting too near the truth.  Anyway, I
shot her with my drik, and I thought it would be a good idea to take her back
for questioning.”

“A Federation spy!  Great galaxies!”  Sublieutenant Soolin declares, “but why
do you think that, sir?”

“Well, Sam,” you reply, “First, finding the bug in the pillow-case, second
finding the receiver in the barn, third the fact that her old clothes were in
the crate when she said she had thrown them away, fourth the new maglock on the
trapdoor, fifth the mallet made on Paran, sixth finding the maglock key so
close to the trapdoor, seventh the Reldan-made raft, eighth the fact that the
jumpsuit fit her so well, ninth what the report on the orange datatab said,
tenth the bottle of shampoo/cleansing lotion I found hidden by the river, near
where she was bathing, eleventh the black shuttle parked in the field across
the river, and finally the recording of my bugged conversations.”

“I see, sir; then that’s quite a catch!”  Sublieutenant Soolin remarks.

>SOOLIN, FLY
“It’s time to fly, sublieutenant,” you announce.

“Where do you want to go, sir?” she asks.

(You could tell her to return to the ship, tell her to fly over the river, ask
her about herself, or the Federation crisis, tell her about the orange datatab,
Leela, the robot, the town, the Elder, old Jeb, the black shuttle, the mallet,
the raft, the plastic bottle, the receiving device, the black datatab, or the
bug, or tell her to leave.)

>RETURN TO THE SHIP
“Let’s go back to the ship,” you say, “I’ve finished here.”

“Right you are, sir,” she replies.

Sublieutenant Soolin turns to the controls and starts up the shuttle.  Within
seconds the argoms cut in and the shuttle lifts effortlessly up into the air.
You glance down at the forest and the tiny town below for one last time, but
they shrink rapidly out of sight as the shuttle speeds skywards towards the
orbiting frigate.

Once she has put the shuttle on autopilot, Sublieutenant Soolin turns to you
and says, glancing at the figure lying on the back seat, “I wonder if she’ll
talk, sir?  I can’t imagine it’ll be too easy to persuade her to confess to
being a spy!”

With a triumphant little smile you show her the black datatab, “Oh but she
already has, Sam,” you tell her, “she effectively confessed when she attacked
me, and I’ve got it all on here – recorded by her own bugging device!”

Sublieutenant Soolin smiles and nods, “That was well done, sir – our superiors
will be pleased!”

“One can but hope,” you concur.

For a moment, you wonder whether you’ll ever see Elysium again, but then
Sublieutenant Soolin starts chatting with you, and your thoughts turn to the
more immediate future.

*** YOU HAVE WON ***

In 422 moves, you have scored 30 of a possible 30 points.

Would you like to RESTORE a saved position, RESTART the story, UNDO the last
move, see your FULL SCORE, see some AMUSING things to try, or QUIT?

>