All text will now be saved to the script file.  Type UNSCRIPT at any time to
discontinue scripting.

>s
North Hall
   This is the middle of a dark hallway that runs to the north and to the
south.  What little light there is comes from the south.

>s
Center
   Grey light drips in from an octagonal skylight in the ceiling of this room,
making the room look as cold as it feels.  To the north, east, and south,
doorways lead into unlit halls.  The metal door frame of the east hall glows
faintly with an eerie blue light.

You are attracted to the light and reach out to touch it.  You experience what
feels like a strong shock of static electricity, and freeze as you hear a
terrified scream coming from the east hall.  As you watch, your body frozen in
place, the light in the room becomes much brighter, and a thin man with
streaming black hair rushes in from the hall, panting wretchedly.  He skids on
the slick tile and crashes to the ground.  There's a distinct 'crack' as he
falls, and you see his left leg bent impossibly behind him, metal sticking out
of the kneecap.  Yet the image is wrong.  The whole room seems blurred, and
fades away if you try to focus on any particular thing.  The sound seems off
too, just slightly out of sync with the action.  Suddenly, a woman runs in from
the north, and kneels by the man.

"What's happened?"  she asks, rapidly examining the man's wounded leg.

Still piled on the floor, gasping, the man mumbles, "That thing... the
Jabberwocky... it's out... broke the vial right there... slammed the door..."
As he continues gasping, you hear the sound of more feet rushing in from the
north, but the picture begins to fade, and you are again standing alone in the
dim, silent room.

>s
South Hall
   At this point in the long hall, the drab metal walls are interrupted by an
opening on the east side of the passage.  You can see light far back to the
north, but only icy darkness to the south.

>e
Communications Room
   Around you, you can sense the shapes of hulking masses:  some harshly
angled, some weirdly curved.  All are faintly outlined by the half-light from
the hall.  A motion catches your eye and, coming closer, you see it's the door
of a cabinet, swinging slowly back and forth.

>turn on power
You flip the switch and are nearly knocked back, your eyes dazzled, as
fluorescent light floods the room.  All through the station you hear humming
and pulsing as machines come to life.  In a moment the noises fade and your
eyes adjust.  An electronic voice echoes through the room.  "Returned to main
power supply from auxiliary power supply.  All station functions returning to
normal."

You are in some sort of communications center.  Tall machines, barnacled with
speakers and keyboards, crowd the tight space.  The largest machine in the room
stands directly in front of you and bears a screen covered in flashing figures.
On the west wall, next to the door, the power box hangs open.

>l at screen
The screen reads:  last message out:  PROBLEMS REACHED CRITICAL LEVEL--COMPLETE
EVACUATION ARRANGED--DO NOT ATTEMPT FURTHER CONTACT IN ANY MANNER--RESEARCH
MUST BE CONSIDERED DESTROYED--TELERUS PROJECT FAILED--PROJECT 'BABEL' FAILED--
OUT.

>w
South Hall
   This hall extends far to the north and south, illuminated by white lights
bright enough to make your head throb.  To the east is the communications room.

>s
Entry Area
   This is the southern end of a hall, which continues back to the north.  To
the east is a door with a card slot on the wall next to it, and opposite it, on
the west wall, is a much larger door, a bulkhead, which glows blue.  Next to
the bulkhead, to the northwest, is another door, smaller than the other two,
where the wall juts out slightly.  The cold here is even stronger than in the
rest of the building, and you shiver violently.

>touch bulkhead
The wind is knocked out of you as your fingers come in contact with the ice
cold steel of the door frame.  You hear voices behind you and turn to see four
people taking shape in the hall.  Three of them, the man and woman from the
scene in the center room and another, older man, seem to be greeting the fourth
person, a young man with blond hair.

"We're very glad to welcome you, Dr. Telurien," says the older man, addressing
the newcomer, his tone cordial but uninflected.  The sound is garbled though,
and the people flicker in and out, like an old and deteriorating movie.  "You
and I have met," he continues, "but I believe you know our other two colleagues
through correspondence alone.  May I introduce, then, Dr. Brett Owen, the
station technologist, and Dr. Alexis Stevansen, our bio-technologist."

At this, Dr. Stevansen, the woman you saw in the first vision, moves forward to
shake the young man's hand.  "I've taken some interest in your work, Dr.
Telurien.  Your hypotheses are very un-conventional.  Not necessarily workable,
but still quite intriguing."  Her voice is relaxed, far from the first
speaker's tone.  "And, despite Jonas here," she continues, throwing a glance at
the older man, "we're not always this formal.  Call me Alexis."

"Then call me David," replies the young man.  You notice he has still not let
go of Alexis' hand.

Also noticing this, the black haired man--Dr. Owen apparently--quickly breaks
in.  As he steps forward to shake David's hand, you see he has a slight limp. 
"I'm guessing Jonas will want to show you your room and give you a quick de-
briefing," he says softly.  "Then I'll show you around the station.  I believe
you'll find our facilities more than adequate and--"

"Well, I believe that will do for introductions," says Jonas, casually
steamrolling over the quieter scientist.  "If you'll follow me I'll show you
your room."  He presses a small panel on the wall that you had previously
thought was just a tile, and the northwest door opens.  He goes through the
door, with David following obediently.  Alexis' eyes follow him out as the view
crackles and fades.

>push button
The door slides open.

>nw
Antechamber
   This is a small diamond-shaped room that provides a transition from the
sharp, metal cold of the hall to the residential quarters beyond.  Southeast
and down a step is the entry area of the station, northwest and up a step are
the quarters for the station crew.

>nw
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>e
(Opening the east door)
Brett's Room
   This room is a complete wreck.  The sheets are torn from the bare mattress,
the bedding thrown on the floor.  A dresser and a glass-doored bookcase, its
panes shattered, lay on their sides, their contents flung in wild piles over
the floor.  You can barely see a path through the books and other junk to the
bathroom door on the north wall or the hall door to the west.

>l at junk
Strewn all over are various objects:  pieces of clothing, books (including a
handsome copy of the Bible), papers, sheets from the bed, etc.  The only
explanation you can imagine for this sort of mess is that this room has been
very thoroughly searched, for something.  You notice, with some surprise, a
white card is lying near the bed, almost covered by a fallen pillow.

>take bible and card
bible:  Taken.
ID card:  Taken.

>w
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>w
(Opening the west door)
Jonas' Room
   This room conveys the same hard sense of cleanliness and exactness you've
felt in the rest of the station, despite the soft cream sheets on the bed and a
graceful, antique roll-top desk in the corner.  Next to the desk are a simple
dresser and a bookshelf.  To the south is the bathroom door, and to the east
the round room.

>l at desk
The desk, the only piece of wooden furniture you've seen anywhere here, is a
convoluted mass of drawers and pigeonholes, ranging in size from folio holders
to pencil nooks the size of a dime.  Usually when you imagine a desk like this,
it's covered with books and papers and other instruments of study.  This desk,
however, is completely barren, all its drawers empty, on its surface only a
fading green blotter.

>l at blotter
On one corner of the blotter you see what appears to be the number 80, hastily
scribbled in orange ink.

>e
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>se
Antechamber
   This is a small diamond-shaped room that provides a transition from the
sharp, metal cold of the hall to the residential quarters beyond.  Southeast
and down a step is the entry area of the station, northwest and up a step are
the quarters for the station crew.

>se
Entry Area
   This is the southern end of a hall, which continues back to the north.  To
the east is a door with a card slot on the wall next to it, and opposite it, on
the west wall, is a much larger door, a bulkhead, which glows blue.  Next to
the bulkhead, to the northwest, is another door, smaller than the other two,
where the wall juts out slightly.  The cold here is even stronger than in the
rest of the building, and you shiver violently.

>n
South Hall
   This hall extends far to the north and south, illuminated by white lights
bright enough to make your head throb.  To the east is the communications room.

>n
Center
   Three halls, to the north, south, and east, converge here.  Each hall is
framed with an identical metal door frame.  Identical except for the east
hall's door, which glows slightly.

>n
North Hall
   This is the middle of a silent tunnel that continues to the north and south.

>n
North End
   White light glares off steel and sanitary tile at the end of this hall.  To
the west is a door with a small slot next to it and to the north is another
door, with an odd object connected to the handle and the door frame.  The
northeast corner is filled with an imposing bulkhead covered with various bio-
hazard labels.  The hall continues to the south.

>put card in slot
The door slides open and you remove the card.

>w
Records II
   This small, high-ceilinged room contains a c-shaped ledge that juts from the
wall and is set with various data entry devices and covered with papers.  Three
chairs are set in front of the ledge for people working here.  Set in the south
wall, above the ledge, is a wide screen, and, directly beneath it, under the
ledge, is a small safe.  The only way out is a door to the east.

>l at safe
The small safe looks very sturdy and bears a red dial on its door, which is
currently closed.

>turn dial to 80
Okay, it's now turned to 80.  The door pops open.  Sitting on a glowing shelf
in the safe is a metal key.

>take metal key
Taken.

>touch shelf
The shock that pricks your fingers as you touch the shelf is slight, but sharp.
Jonas and Alexis resolve into the room with you, and you sense immediately that
this scene is the clearest of all the visions you've seen so far.  As Jonas
closes the safe and spins the dial, his grey eyes look directly at you for a
moment.  He suddenly appears very, very old.  But his voice is strong and
authoritative as he turns back to Alexis.  "There," he says.  "I belive I have
everything ready.  The doors are closed and the water's turned off.  You go out
to the courtyard now, the helicopter is prepared.  I'll send out one last
message and turn off the power then set the lock when I come out."

"But what about--"

"No, this is the only way.  It's too late now, the damage has been done.  We
must escape--and I do not use that word lightly--and we must do it now.  I wish
I had had the foresight to stop this while I still could, but the danger now is
too great.  Our only option is to seal off the Babel project and do our best to
forget it ever happened."  Alexis makes no reply, only stands in the doorway,
her eyes meeting Jonas' glare.  Silence squeezes the room, until finally Jonas
whispers, "There are two devils loose now.  Blame me if you like, but go." 
Alexis turns rigidly and walks away.  The sound of sobbing comes in from the
hall as the image fades.

>ask hosea about babel
The screen reads:  Babel Project:  Station constructed by the Administrative
Agency for the development of biological experimentation, for the purpose of
bettering mankind.  Station is manned by four scientists, who will stay in
residence, with provisions air-dropped monthly.  Station is subdivided into a
residential area, a lab hall, and a specimen gallery.

>ask hosea about gallery
The screen reads:  Gallery:  The Babel Station contains an extensive atrium
gallery of cages, for the maintenance of study specimens.  The amount of light
entering the gallery from the dome over it can be adjusted by aligning large
polarizing filters, controlled near the door.  A second gallery, containing
toxins and viruses, is located nearby.

>ask hosea about filters
The screen reads:  Gallery Lenses:  Illumination to the atrium gallery can be
controlled by adjusting the alignment of the polarizing lenses over the dome
and completely blocked by setting any two of the three lenses to the same
alignment.

>e
North End
   White light glares off steel and sanitary tile at the end of this hall.  To
the west is a door with a small slot next to it and to the north is another
door, with an odd object connected to the handle and the door frame.  The
northeast corner is filled with an imposing bulkhead covered with various bio-
hazard labels.  The hall continues to the south.

>s
North Hall
   This is the middle of a silent tunnel that continues to the north and south.

>s
Center
   Three halls, to the north, south, and east, converge here.  Each hall is
framed with an identical metal door frame.  Identical except for the east
hall's door, which glows slightly.

>s
South Hall
   This hall extends far to the north and south, illuminated by white lights
bright enough to make your head throb.  To the east is the communications room.

>s
Entry Area
   This is the southern end of a hall, which continues back to the north.  To
the east is a door with a card slot on the wall next to it, and opposite it, on
the west wall, is a much larger door, a bulkhead, which glows blue.  Next to
the bulkhead, to the northwest, is another door, smaller than the other two,
where the wall juts out slightly.  The cold here is even stronger than in the
rest of the building, and you shiver violently.

>nw
Antechamber
   This is a small diamond-shaped room that provides a transition from the
sharp, metal cold of the hall to the residential quarters beyond.  Southeast
and down a step is the entry area of the station, northwest and up a step are
the quarters for the station crew.

>nw
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>unlock south door with metal key
Unlocked.

>s
(Opening the south door)
Alexis' Room
   This appears to be a actual "room," that is, it feels like a real person
lived here.  The nondescript furniture--a metal desk, a bookcase, a dresser and
a short bed--through the most subtle alterations, give the room a warm feeling.
Everything from the fading smell of lilacs to the small, glowing bud vase on
the table, speak of an occupant determined to make a home in this sterile
building.  The bathroom door is to the west and a second door to the north
leads out.

>touch vase
As your fingers touch the crystal, you hear the voices of David and Alexis
behind you, but the sound fades in and out.  You turn and see them lounging on
the bed, the air of tension and discipline you've sensed in the other scenes
completely absent here.

"You know, I think Jonas would kill us if he found out I was here," says David,
grinning slowly.

"Look at us," laughs Alexis, "Acting like two frightened teenagers."

"With the girl's father in the next room," finishes David, as he gently tickles
Alexis.  She giggles like a child and bats David away.  He laughs, but somehow
the tickling bodies embrace.  The pair lies silently on the bed, comfortable,
then the loud latch of the door snaps open.  Alexis and David bolt up and you
turn to face the newcomer, but the image instantly disappears.

>n
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>unlock north door
(with the metal key)
Unlocked.

>n
(Opening the north door)
David's Room
   There is something off-center and deeply disturbing about this small space. 
While the dresser, bed, table and bookshelf that comprise the only furnishings
of the room are normal enough, rather featureless in fact, certain details are
wrong.  The thick glass doors on the bookshelf are cracked and shattered in
places, the sheets of the bed are in terrible disarray, and, most disturbing, a
thin trail of blood leads across the carpet from the bathroom door to the east
out the south door.  You also notice the table glows with an unearthly light.

>touch table
You touch the surface and a "ghost" image of David appears sitting on the
table, right next to your hand.  Across the room, Jonas is pacing and talking,
but the image quality is terrible and you can only just make out the
conversation.

"It should be clear," intones Jonas, "that our work here is of the most
confidential nature.  While we are working for their benefit, the general
populace are a superstitious and ignorant lot, easily given over to panic.  For
these reasons, whatever discoveries we make here, if and when they are revealed
to the masses, must be camouflaged in such a way as to give no hint that we
created them.  It was here that the cancer vaccine and the first viable organic
fuel were formulated.  Yet you will never hear our name mentioned.  This is the
most thankless of jobs, David."  Here he pauses and then continues with
measured emotion.  "But the true reward working here comes from the work
itself.  A knowledge of duty and ability fufilled.  You are brilliant, David;
only the sharpest minds in the world have the ability to be one of the four
here.  But that's not all it takes.  It requires an unselfish, single-minded
obedience to the spirit of science.  Perhaps this sounds harsh, but one working
here would do well to consider his life forfeit should it come to a choice
between one's personal situation and the demands of science and position." 
Jonas turns to face David, who sits, mesmerized by the speech.

"I believe I understand," he replies.  He looks directly at Jonas, almost as
one in a trance.  "I will not disappoint you, sir.  I came here for love of
science, and I shall do whatever is required of me."  Jonas smiles and nods,
fatherly in his attitude toward the younger scientist.

"As I'm sure it will come up," says Jonas after a brief pause, "there is one
more issue to deal with.  You should be made aware of the circumstances
surrounding the death of your predecessor here, Dr. Brian Thorne.  As you may
have heard, our esteemed colleague did die while working here, and his death
was not of natural causes."  Jonas slows here, judging his words carefully. 
"We work in miracles here, David, and occasionally a mind, no matter how
brilliant, is too narrow to accept these wonders.  Dr. Thorne was a
conservative man in the realm of the fantastic, and his mind suffered.  In the
end, assuredly mad, he leapt from the top balcony of the specimen gallery to
the floor below, and to his death."  Jonas pauses here, the obligatory sign of
respect.  "And now that that skeleton is out of the closet as it were, I
believe we've covered everything.  If you would be so kind as to..."  They
continue the conversation, but it is enveloped by the increasing static, and
eventually fades out altogether.

>open east door
You attempt to open the door, but find it stuck fast.  Looking closer, you see
that the door has been slammed shut so violently that it has become embedded in
the dented steel of the door frame.  You wonder at the inhuman strength that
could have done this.

>s
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>unlock nw door
(with the metal key)
Unlocked.

>nw
(Opening the northwest door)
Dining Room
   This sizable octagonal chamber is the dining/meeting room of the residential
section.  In one corner a counter--which is glowing oddly--and a few appliances
and cabinets designate the kitchenette.  The only other fixture in the room is
a metal table with four chairs, which seems dwarfed and isolated in the middle
of the floor.  An arch in the southeast wall leads to the round room and
another door by the kitchenette in the southwest wall leads to a storage area.
   You see a calendar here.

>touch counter
There is a brief flash of blue-white light, the sharp tingle you've grown
accustomed to, and the image appears.  Brett is slumped in one of the kitchen
chairs while Jonas, stooping, examines the scientist's knee.  The pant leg has
been cut away, revealing a prosthetic limb in place of his left leg.  The
artificial appendage is damaged, steel pins sticking out from the joint.  Jonas
carefully begins to repair the leg using a set of extremely sharp tools. 
Alexis paces over the room, rubbing her palms, not looking at the other two.

"I couldn't believe it," Brett says, his eyes closed, in exhaustion more than
pain.  "Just slipped in behind me, grabbed the vial, threw it down, and ran. 
David is not safe out there either.  I made that toxin, I know what it can
do..."

"Obviously," states Jonas, his eyes never leaving his work, "the mental
deterioration is much faster than we presumed.  To attack with such deadly
means, and unprovoked--"

"Unprovoked?!"  Alexis stops short, glaring at Jonas.  "You refused to
administer the anti-toxin.  What further provocation does he need?  If you
hadn't--"

"Oh, it's my fault is it?  Really?"  Jonas' sarcasm turns the air sour and he
slowly stands to stare at Alexis, ignoring his patient.  "Dr.  Stevansen, you
were in charge of seeing that the creature--" He pauses momentarily as Alexis
gasps in indignation.  "Yes, I believe creature would be the correct term at
the moment.  You were in charge of making sure it was confined."

"And I did, against every natural impulse I had."

"Then how did it get out?"  The pause is expectant, hard.

"It is possible that I did not check the lock when I brought him his last
meal."  Alexis' tone in this confession is flat, her face betraying nothing.

Brett breaks the silence, sensing violence in the air.  "There's no point
wasting time arguing about that."  Unable to stand with his damaged leg, he
sits straighter in his chair, trying, unsuccessfully, to be commanding.  "We
don't know how secure the seal around the viral gallery is, so we've got to act
quickly to nullify the Jabberwocky formula, then administer the anti-toxin as
soon--"

"We will do no such thing.  I have orders to allow the test to run full cycle,
and this incident will not stop that."  Both Alexis and Brett stare at Jonas,
stunned.  Violently, Brett reaches up and grabs the older man's lab coat.

"Listen, Jonas," he half whispers, pulling him down, "You're crazy.  There is a
fatal toxin in this building, and a homicidal...  thing roaming the halls.  We
will all die if you insist on this insane course."

"We will not die, you idiot," says Jonas, pushing Brett's hands away from him. 
"We are capable of dealing with this crisis without breaching the integrity of
the experiment.  While David is almost certainly lost, our orders have not
changed.  If you will listen now..."  But it is obvious that Brett is not
listening.  Instead, staring at Jonas in something like horror, he is slowly
staggering out of the room, having obvious difficulty with his still damaged
leg, unable to fully stand.

"God have mercy on you," he mumbles as he backs away, his tall frame now
reduced to that of a shuffling hunchback.  "God have mercy on your poor,
twisted soul..."  As he stumbles out the door, the image fades away.

>sw
Residential Storage
   The storage area is a tiny rectangle, illuminated by one flickering panel
light.  A filter in the ceiling blows in chilly, damp air, which forms a slimy
layer on your bare skin.  Rudimentary metal shelves, some showing signs of
rust, line the walls, covered with canned goods and sealed containers of food. 
Nothing perishable, and certainly nothing exceptional.  In the northeast corner
is the door, opposite which is a pegboard for hanging tools.  The board is
glowing faint blue.  You also note one segment of shelves has collapsed, its
contents lying on the floor.
   The pegboard seems to contain a screwdriver.

>touch pegboard
The pegboard shimmers at your touch, and tools appear, neatly hanging in their
outlines.  You hear a soft clatter behind you and turn to see Alexis carefully
stacking cans from a cardboard box onto the shelves.  She fades in and out
every time she places a can; the image quality is horrible.  David enters
quietly, looking around him in vague awe.

"Hello David," Alexis says, setting down the box of cans and smiling.  "Brett
give you the full tour?"

"Oh, yes," says David.  "I have never in my life imagined some of the things
you're doing here.  It's amazing."  He pauses, then continues, becoming more
and more excited.  "I have always dreamed of being able to work purely with
science, no guidelines or strictures blocking the way.  I can finally do that
here, be able to work to my full potential.  Alexis, I'm so excited."

"Obviously," she replies, laughing.  "It's not always that amazing, though.  We
have as much of the mundane here as the fantastic."  Ruefully, she points to
the air vent.  "That, for example.  Here we are, four of the most brilliant
scientists on the planet, but we still can't seem to stop the air filter from
getting wet and rusting the shelves and then spoiling the food."  She smiles
wryly, and goes back to stacking cans.  David hesitates for a moment, then
grabs a can and starts working along side of her.

"I think I'm going to like it here, Alexis."

"Well... I'm glad you came."

The image fades out, leaving harsh static in your ears, which slowly disappears
as well.

>l at segment
The bolts connecting the corner of these shelves to the supporting bar seem to
have rusted through, causing the shelves to fall.  The six foot support bar
lies on the floor along with the rest of the contents of the broken shelves.

>take bar and screwdriver
metal pole:  Taken.
screwdriver:  Taken.

>ne
Dining Room
   This sizable octagonal chamber is the dining/meeting room of the residential
section.  In one corner a counter--which is glowing oddly--and a few appliances
and cabinets designate the kitchenette.  The only other fixture in the room is
a metal table with four chairs, which seems dwarfed and isolated in the middle
of the floor.  An arch in the southeast wall leads to the round room and
another door by the kitchenette in the southwest wall leads to a storage area.
   You see a calendar here.

>se
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>se
Antechamber
   This is a small diamond-shaped room that provides a transition from the
sharp, metal cold of the hall to the residential quarters beyond.  Southeast
and down a step is the entry area of the station, northwest and up a step are
the quarters for the station crew.

>se
Entry Area
   This is the southern end of a hall, which continues back to the north.  To
the east is a door with a card slot on the wall next to it, and opposite it, on
the west wall, is a much larger door, a bulkhead, which glows blue.  Next to
the bulkhead, to the northwest, is another door, smaller than the other two,
where the wall juts out slightly.  The cold here is even stronger than in the
rest of the building, and you shiver violently.

>n
South Hall
   This hall extends far to the north and south, illuminated by white lights
bright enough to make your head throb.  To the east is the communications room.

>n
Center
   Three halls, to the north, south, and east, converge here.  Each hall is
framed with an identical metal door frame.  Identical except for the east
hall's door, which glows slightly.

>e
East Hall
   Your nose is bitten by the scent of cleaning alcohol, present in all the
halls, and especially here.  The stainless corridor continues to the east and
west.

>e
East End
   You're standing at the eastern extremity of an abandoned hall, which
continues back to the west.  In front of you is a large bulkhead with a
flashing red beacon on it.  Almost drowned out by the red glare of the beacon,
you see the bulkhead itself has a vague blue glow about it.  To the north is
another door, with a card slot next to it.

>l at bulkhead
The steel bulkhead, about six feet square, is covered with large warning
labels, and is illuminated both by a garish red beacon and by a weird glow of
its own.  There's also a panel in the bottom corner of the bulkhead which seems
loose.

>touch bulkhead
You experience a mild shock as you touch the door frame.  Instantly, you hear
voices around you, and three people--Brett, David, and Alexis--appear, in mid-
conversation.  They stare right through you at the bulkhead, which is now open,
letting a wash of light into the hall.

"But you must see the need for some restraint in experimentation," says Brett,
peering at David.

"Why?"  he replies, almost indignant.

"Research must have a directed purpose.  On our level, it's dangerous to do
something just because we can.  If there is no need for the product of a study,
then there is no need for the study at all."

"No."  says David, cold.  "That's what I'm saying.  The things which come out
of research, good or bad, aren't the point.  They're just the by-products. 
What are important are the answers, and the further questions they create. 
It's a cycle.  "

"What do you mean?"  asks Alexis, who had been listening quietly.

"Knowledge is the only thing.  The careful unraveling of what we percive as the
world to discover the thread it's made of.  "

"David," says Alexis, taking his hand.  "Always ambitious and--"

"Foolish," mumbles Brett, looking at his feet.

"Now listen..."  says David, taking a step forward, his eyes dark.  "If you
insist on being--"

"Please, David," Alexis says, putting a hand on his shoulder and quietly
forcing him to calm.  Silently, Brett and David stare at each other, like
mirrors.  The picture fades away.

>open panel with screwdriver
The panel pops off.  In the space it covered is a lever marked "MANUAL
OVERRIDE".

>w
East Hall
   Your nose is bitten by the scent of cleaning alcohol, present in all the
halls, and especially here.  The stainless corridor continues to the east and
west.

>w
Center
   Three halls, to the north, south, and east, converge here.  Each hall is
framed with an identical metal door frame.  Identical except for the east
hall's door, which glows slightly.

>s
South Hall
   This hall extends far to the north and south, illuminated by white lights
bright enough to make your head throb.  To the east is the communications room.

>e
Communications Room
   You are in some sort of communications center.  Tall machines, barnacled
with speakers and keyboards, crowd the tight space.  The largest machine in the
room stands directly in front of you and bears a screen covered in flashing
figures.  On the west wall, next to the door, the power box hangs open.

>flip switch
You flip the switch off and darkness engulfs you.  The machines in the room
make almost animal whimpers as power drains from them.  A monotone voice
states, "Station now on auxiliary power only.  All station functions except
sectional doorway mechanisms disabled," then clicks itself into silence.

Around you, you can sense the shapes of hulking masses:  some harshly angled,
some weirdly curved.  All are faintly outlined by the half-light from the hall.

>w
South Hall
   At this point in the long hall, the drab metal walls are interrupted by an
opening on the east side of the passage.  You can see light far back to the
north, but only icy darkness to the south.

>n
Center
   Grey light drips in from an octagonal skylight in the ceiling of this room,
making the room look as cold as it feels.  To the north, east, and south,
doorways lead into unlit halls.  The metal door frame of the east hall glows
faintly with an eerie blue light.

>n
North Hall
   This is the middle of a dark hallway that runs to the north and to the
south.  What little light there is comes from the south.

>s
Center
   Grey light drips in from an octagonal skylight in the ceiling of this room,
making the room look as cold as it feels.  To the north, east, and south,
doorways lead into unlit halls.  The metal door frame of the east hall glows
faintly with an eerie blue light.

>e
East Hall
   The darkness in this hall amplifies the odd echoes of your feet on the tile.
The only light comes from down the hall to the west; to the east it is darker
still.

>e
East End
   In almost absolute darkness, you can just see the outlines of a door on the
north wall and what appears to be a bulkhead to the east.  Oddly, a faint glow
is coming from the bulkhead.  To the west there seems to be more light.

>pull lever
You move the lever and the bulkhead slides up into the ceiling.

>put bar in door
You wedge the bar into the groove on the left side of the bulkhead.

>w
East Hall
   The darkness in this hall amplifies the odd echoes of your feet on the tile.
The only light comes from down the hall to the west; to the east it is darker
still.

>w
Center
   Grey light drips in from an octagonal skylight in the ceiling of this room,
making the room look as cold as it feels.  To the north, east, and south,
doorways lead into unlit halls.  The metal door frame of the east hall glows
faintly with an eerie blue light.

>s
South Hall
   At this point in the long hall, the drab metal walls are interrupted by an
opening on the east side of the passage.  You can see light far back to the
north, but only icy darkness to the south.

>e
Communications Room
   Around you, you can sense the shapes of hulking masses:  some harshly
angled, some weirdly curved.  All are faintly outlined by the half-light from
the hall.  You can make out the shape of the power box on the west wall.

>flip switch
You flip the switch and are nearly knocked back, your eyes dazzled, as
fluorescent light floods the room.  All through the station you hear humming
and pulsing as machines come to life.  In a moment the noises fade and your
eyes adjust.  An electronic voice echoes through the room.  "Returned to main
power supply from auxiliary power supply.  All station functions returning to
normal."  There's a short pause, a click, and then the voice says, "Warning: 
Safety breach at Gallery Junction entrance.  Security systems now closing and
sealing door."  Some distance away in the station, you hear an odd noise, then
the metal voice says, "Warning:  Safety breach at Gallery Junction entrance. 
Security systems unable to close door."

You are in some sort of communications center.  Tall machines, barnacled with
speakers and keyboards, crowd the tight space.  The largest machine in the room
stands directly in front of you and bears a screen covered in flashing figures.
On the west wall, next to the door, the power box hangs open.

>w
South Hall
   This hall extends far to the north and south, illuminated by white lights
bright enough to make your head throb.  To the east is the communications room.

>n
Center
   Three halls, to the north, south, and east, converge here.  Each hall is
framed with an identical metal door frame.  Identical except for the east
hall's door, which glows slightly.

>e
East Hall
   Your nose is bitten by the scent of cleaning alcohol, present in all the
halls, and especially here.  The stainless corridor continues to the east and
west.

>e
East End
   You're standing at the eastern extremity of an abandoned hall, which
continues back to the west.  A flashing red beacon on the bulkhead at the east
end of the hall screams over the subtle blue glow of the door, but the warning
does little good, as the door has been blocked open with a pole.  To the north
is another door, with a card slot next to it.

>e
Gallery Junction
   This smallish chamber is apparently a junction of hallways and rooms. 
Through a sliding glass door on the east wall you see a huge, dark room.  A
second sliding glass door, glowing with faint blue fire, is to the south, but a
large warning flashes over it.  Next to each of the glass doors is a card slot,
identical to the ones in the halls.  To the west is a large bulkhead, propped
open with a metal pole, and flashing a red warning beacon similar to one on the
south door.  An open passage leads north.  The only other feature of the room
besides the doors is a small recess on the east wall.

>touch south door
You touch the door and misty reflections form in the glass.  Brett stands in
the junction, while Jonas looks thoughtfully through the south door.

"Jonas, you've got to accept the data.  The Telerus is essentially worthless,"
says Brett, as if he had been repeating himself for a long time.

Jonas slowly turns to glare at the other scientist.  "It will be a boon to
mankind," he commands.  "The Telerus, in the area of espionage alone, could
give the Administrative Agency unimaginable power."

"By the time an agent had developed tellurgic abilities of any useful power,
his mind would be so twisted--"

"Hypothesis," snaps Jonas, severing the argument.  "We can't be sure of any of
those side effects until a human trial is run.  The Agency believes it
imperative."

"The Agency would never allow some volunteer to enter the station for the
testing."

They start up the hall to the north, still arguing.  As the image fades you
hear Jonas' voice, echoing in the hall.  "They must, eventually.  They'll send
someone.  They demand a human trial...demand a human trial...human trial..."

>n
Hall
   This is another empty hall of steel and tile, identical to the others in its
cold construction.  It continues to the north and ends in a junction to the
south.  Due perhaps to the utter silence in the hall, or simply the unbearable
cold worming up through your feet, you find yourself, without thinking, walking
on your tiptoes here.

You hear a distant, metallic voice say, "Warning.  Main Power Supply Low."

>n
Lab Entrance
   At this end of the hall are a pair of large, swinging doors which lead
north.  Through portholes in the doors, you can see an odd collection of
scientific and medical equipment.  A smaller door is set in the east wall and
the hall continues to the south.

>e
(Opening the east door)
Supply Closet
   This small circular room holds all manner of boxes and bottles on its
recessed shelves.  In some of the open boxes you see new test tubes, vials of
unknown chemicals and the like.  One flask in particular catches your eye,
emblazoned with the words "HS1:  HORMONE" in stunning red letters.  There are
doors on both the west and north walls.
   The flask seems to contain some dark liquid.

>take flask
Taken.

>n
(Opening the north door)
Medical Alcove
   The dominating element of this small cube is the color white.  The walls are
white, the stiff bed by the east wall is covered in white sheets, the counter
sticking out of the wall in the corner looks as though it were carved from
snow.  Set into the counter is a pale, porcelain sink.  Even the air smells as
if it has been scoured bare.  Enameled doors lead to the south and west.
   You see a red syringe here.

>take syringe
Taken.

>w
(Opening the west door)
Lab Hall III
   You are standing at the eastern end of a long vaulted room filled with
scientific equipment:  the lab hall, the heart of the Babel station.  A large
steel table here, identical to other tables farther down the hall, is half
covered with various instruments and papers in a jumbled mess.  A portion of
the table is cleared except for three small cages, which glow blue.  Against
the north wall is a white metal cabinet and swinging double doors in the south
wall lead out of the lab.  A smaller door is to the east, while the lab hall
continues to the west.

>touch cage
You touch the cage, not minding the sharp tingle.  The silence in the room
changes from the dead, abandoned silence of before to a busy quiet.  Animals
move in cages, computers hum.  Jonas, sitting by the table, observes the mice
skittering about their cages and takes notes.

"Additional notes on Telerus toxin..."  he mumbles as he writes, his silver
hair swept back.  "After a short period, the toxin causes the eyes to dilate
unevenly, mildly skewing sight.  Further, both tellurgic abilities and periods
of..."  he pauses, hunting for the right word, even for these private notes,
"...of instability increase together over time, and can be advanced in large
increments if the target is subjected to some traumatic event."  Apparently
finished, he neatly piles his notes and leaves.  The mice race about madly in
their cages, flinging themselves against the bars and each other, their seed-
like eyes dilated to the point of deformation.  You stare with detached
revulsion as one mouse throws itself on the other in its cage, shredding the
victim's fur with movements too rapid to follow.  The second mouse seems too
exhausted to react, and lies motionless while the aggressor sinks its teeth
deep into its leg.  The image fades.

>w
Lab Hall II
   This is the center of a large, grey hall; something like a cross between a
hospital operating room and a chemistry lab.  Along the north wall is a bank of
dark computers, while what you think is an electron microscope sits next to the
south wall, silently glowing blue.  In the center of the room is another large
metal table, covered with balances, tubes and scales.  The lab extends away to
the east and west.

>touch microscope
As you touch the machine, its screen fills with static, which slowly resolves
to images of tightly coiled, cone-shaped helices.  David and Brett stare at the
screen, adjusting the focus.

"Well, that's it," says Brett.  "The thing we've concentrated on for several
months, since before you came here.  The Telerus."

"Why is it pointed at one end like that?"  asks David, zooming in on one
twisted shape.

"It's an endless progression.  Each twist of the helix is smaller than the
last, down and down, to a point that not even an electron scope can sense."

"So where does it end?"

"There's no reason to believe it ever does."

"Why must you be so cryptic?"  asks David, a hint of petulance in his demand.

Brett sighs quietly.  "I don't want to fight with you, David.  We've had enough
of that.  Let's just accept that we have different reasons for being here, and
try to live with it."

"Why are you here if you hate it so much?"

"Because I want to know."  says Brett, frustrated.  David raises his eyebrows
and Brett nods.  "I would like to say that I came here for purely altruistic
reasons, the bettering of mankind, and that is partly true.  But only partly. 
I came here because I, more than anyone, I think, have a desire to Know.  To
stare God in the face and see what his powers truly are, and what powers we
have given him."

David stares at the man, stunned by his vehemence.  "I thought you were afraid
of God," he says.

"I am afraid of man," answers Brett.  "I am awed by God, but not humbled.  I
designed this station.  I named it Babel, certain that the original tower had
fallen due to human error.  I thought we could reach heaven."

"Then why do you hold back?"  asks David.

"Because it is a fool's errand.  To define God is impossible.  Like the helix,
it is an infinite path and every step we take on it makes it longer.  WIth
every move we make to outline the powers of God, He becomes that much more
powerful.  I know there is no end, but something in me, some demonic curiosity,
drives me forward, holding out the vain hope that this time will be different. 
And so the tower grows taller, and less stable."  Brett sinks into a nearby
chair, weary.  He looks towards the microscope and says, "You see, the tower
has grown heavy with futility.  And I fear it may fall."  Suddenly, the
microscope screen goes black and the two doctors are gone.

>w
Lab Hall I
   You are standing at the far western end of the lab hall, which runs back
east.  A heavy bulkhead dominates the southwest corner of the room, while a
staircase along the south wall leads down.  In the middle of the room, two
steel tables have been pushed together to form a larger surface, apparently
used for dissection.  At the moment, two frogs lay opened on the table, the
formaldehyde barely keeping away the dying scent of decay.  Over the rest of
the table are various dissecting implements and a pair of simple microscopes
that are glowing blue.
   You see an amber marked syringe here.

>d
Landing
   Despite the fluorescent tubes set into the walls, this landing on the
staircase seems quite dark.  Stairs go both up and down from this landing, and
a door leads west.

>w
(Opening the west door)
Changing Room
   This is a drab, low-ceilinged rectangle, its west end becoming an open
shower area, its east end bearing a heavy steel door.  A metal bench runs along
the north side of the room, while on the opposite wall are steel clothing
hooks.  The scent of sweat and water sticks in the corners of the room, at once
familiar and squalid.
   You see a radiation suit here.

>take suit
As you pick up the suit, a green plastic card that was in the pocket falls to
the floor.

>take green card
Taken.

>e
Landing
   Despite the fluorescent tubes set into the walls, this landing on the
staircase seems quite dark.  Stairs go both up and down from this landing, and
a door leads west.

>u
Lab Hall I
   You are standing at the far western end of the lab hall, which runs back
east.  A heavy bulkhead dominates the southwest corner of the room, while a
staircase along the south wall leads down.  In the middle of the room, two
steel tables have been pushed together to form a larger surface, apparently
used for dissection.  At the moment, two frogs lay opened on the table, the
formaldehyde barely keeping away the dying scent of decay.  Over the rest of
the table are various dissecting implements and a pair of simple microscopes
that are glowing blue.
   You see an amber marked syringe here.

>pull lever
Done.  The bulkhead slides open.

>sw
North End
   White light glares off steel and sanitary tile at the end of this hall.  To
the west is a door with a small slot next to it and to the north is another
door, with an odd object connected to the handle and the door frame.  The
northeast corner is filled with an imposing bulkhead covered with various bio-
hazard labels.  The hall continues to the south.

>s
North Hall
   This is the middle of a silent tunnel that continues to the north and south.

>s
Center
   Three halls, to the north, south, and east, converge here.  Each hall is
framed with an identical metal door frame.  Identical except for the east
hall's door, which glows slightly.

>s
South Hall
   This hall extends far to the north and south, illuminated by white lights
bright enough to make your head throb.  To the east is the communications room.

>s
Entry Area
   This is the southern end of a hall, which continues back to the north.  To
the east is a door with a card slot on the wall next to it, and opposite it, on
the west wall, is a much larger door, a bulkhead, which glows blue.  Next to
the bulkhead, to the northwest, is another door, smaller than the other two,
where the wall juts out slightly.  The cold here is even stronger than in the
rest of the building, and you shiver violently.

>nw
Antechamber
   This is a small diamond-shaped room that provides a transition from the
sharp, metal cold of the hall to the residential quarters beyond.  Southeast
and down a step is the entry area of the station, northwest and up a step are
the quarters for the station crew.

>nw
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>open flask
Opened.

>pour fluid into syringe
You pour the fluid into the red syringe, leaving a thin, dark film still inside
the flask.

>inject fluid
You ease the needle into your arm and depress the plunger.  Almost immediately,
you feel a writhing burn in your nerves as your heart beat speeds up.  You find
yourself taking unnaturally deep breaths and blinking rapidly.  The world slows
down a bit after the initial shock, but you notice that your hand is clenched
in a fist so strong it could probably twist steel.

>n
David's Room
   There is something off-center and deeply disturbing about this small space. 
While the dresser, bed, table and bookshelf that comprise the only furnishings
of the room are normal enough, rather featureless in fact, certain details are
wrong.  The thick glass doors on the bookshelf are cracked and shattered in
places, the sheets of the bed are in terrible disarray, and, most disturbing, a
thin trail of blood leads across the carpet from the bathroom door to the east
out the south door.  You also notice the table glows with an unearthly light.

>open east door
The door sticks a bit, but you are able to push it open with the added strength
from the hormone injection.

>e
Bathroom
   As you enter the room, you feel an almost physical shock.  Your stomach
tenses.  Your hair stands along your neck.  What is it?  The only furnishings
of the room are a toilet, a sink, and a tiny shower, all in white.  But there's
something missing.  On the tile wall, where the mirror ought to be, is a
ragged, blood stained frame.  Something, with apparently great force, must have
ripped the mirror right off the wall, and cut itself in the process.  Your eyes
follow the bloody trail across the pristine tile and see the mirror on the
floor, partially hidden by the toilet, its surface smeared with dried blood. 
The tension in your body increases and you notice a steady ache in your hand,
slowly radiating out from a long cut you hadn't noticed before.  You feel a
need to move back west into the bedroom and out of this tight space.

>l in mirror
Your body trembles as you kneel on the icy tiles and look down into the blood-
misted depths of the mirror.  For a moment, all you can make out are streaks
and shadows, then the image clears with terrible recognition.  Staring back at
you from beneath the blood is a terrified young man, with blond hair framing a
face itself stained red.  Suspicions crystalize into facts.  You recognize the
face from the visions:  David Telurien, the new arrival.  You.  Your eyes,
widely and unevenly dilated, gaze with empty horror.  You are this man, and yet
you do not know him.  Your mind searches desperately for one memory to connect
you with this pale and blood-spattered face.  Nothing comes.  Shock.  The void
opens before you.  Your head falls back onto the tile.












Memory.  You remember boiling with rage and power.  Seeing your face in the
mirror, the face of a lunatic.  Ripping the mirror from the wall.  Cutting your
hand and smearing the blood.  Shattering every other mirror you could find. 
Pacing.  Waiting.










You awake on the hard tile floor, dazzled by the whiteness of the walls.  Your
head pulses with pain, each bone in you trembles.  Slowly, you stand.

>w
David's Room
   There is something off-center and deeply disturbing about this small space. 
While the dresser, bed, table and bookshelf that comprise the only furnishings
of the room are basically the same as you've seen them in the rest of the
residential quarters, certain details are wrong.  The thick glass doors on the
bookshelf are cracked and shattered in places, the sheets of the bed are in
terrible disarray, and, most disturbing, a thin trail of blood leads across the
carpet from the bathroom door to the east out the south door.

You are surprised to see that, besides the table, which was glowing earlier,
the shattered glass of the bookcase also drips with blue light.  You assume
that the incident with the mirror somehow increased your tellurgic powers. 
What other things in this place might now have visions linked to them?

>touch bookcase
The glass shards sparkle as the cracks disappear and the glass is made whole
again.  You hear weeping and look up to see David on the bed, his body
trembling with quiet sobs.  Alexis is beside him, her arm on his shoulders. 
The look on her face though, unseen by David, is filled with the same
frustration and sorrow.

"It's gone so wrong," he says, his voice distorted by his tears.  "I wanted to
make it work, to prove my worth, to do something, but now...  I don't know what
I am.  More and more, I just black out, and there's such power and rage and...
God!"  Alexis bites her lip and tries to grasp his hands, but he keeps talking,
fast and oblivious.  "The worst part is finding out.  I don't know what I've
done, and then I see the damage I've caused and it comes back to me, in
fragments like little needles.  Brett was right.  We've gone too far.  I've
crossed the line."  The silence is embarassing after the torrent of words. 
"We've got to make it stop."  Mute, Alexis nods slowly.  "The anti-toxin?"  he
asks.  "They've got to be ready now; they can't need more proof."

Alexis opens her mouth, and tries to say something, but only a dry rattle comes
out.  She coughs harshly and starts again, her speech very slow and cautious. 
"That's what I came here to tell you, David.  Jonas decided..."  She stops,
David's eyes on her.  She forces her head down and mumbles, "Jonas decided that
the tests were sufficient, we should be able to administer in a few days." 
David's entire body is melts with relief; he reaches out to embrace Alexis, but
she stands and turns away.  David looks up at her, a question forming on his
lips.

"No," she says suddenly, cutting him off.  "This wasn't it.  Jonas can't..." 
She pauses, breathes deeply and continues, her voice mechanical, her eyes
locked on the wall.  "Jonas says that the experiment has to be finished no
matter what the results are."  Silence.  "He refuses to formulate the anti-
toxin."  She turns slowly to see David, who has stood up in shock.  "He sent me
to tell you, and..."  She stands frozen, as though David's wide eyes had turned
her into stone.  She forces out the words, "And to lock you in your room until
he needs you."  David stands, motionless, while Alexis trembles by the door. 
She takes David's key and ID card from his dresser, and backs into the hall,
her eyes never leaving the figure by the bed.  "I'm sorry," she whispers.  Then
again, whispering at every step back, never getting louder.  She leaves the
room and shuts the door.  You hear the lock click and Alexis suddenly crying
through the steel door, "I'm sorry!"  David shudders, then, like a thread
breaking, swings around and puts his fist through the glass doors of the
bookcase.  The glass shatters, and you stand alone in the room.

>s
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>e
Brett's Room
   This room is a complete wreck.  The sheets are torn from the bare mattress,
the bedding thrown on the floor.  A dresser and a glass-doored bookcase lay on
their sides, their contents flung in wild piles over the floor.  You can barely
see a path through the books and other junk to the bathroom door on the north
wall or the hall door to the west.

The mattress now glows blue amid the tangled sheets.

>touch mattress
Your vision is filled by a flapping flash of white as someone rips the sheets
from the bed.  As the sheets fall to the floor, you see Jonas searching the bed
with unnatural haste.  Behind him, Alexis is systematically going through piles
of books.

"It must be here, he must have written it down," mutters Jonas.  "He could
never remember anything."

"He knew his Bible to the letter," answers Alexis, not looking up.

Without pausing in his search, Jonas replies, "Alexis, do not mock me.  You
have ruined everything.  We must work together now to get out of this
situation, but do not think I have forgiven you."

"Why do we need to find the combination anyway?  So the main gate is locked. 
If we're leaving we won't need to use it anymore."

"Because Brett might want to use it again.  Unless we change the combination,
which we can't do until we know what the current combination is, he could fly
up here any time and have access to all of this.  This is a dangerous place, we
can not have it in the hands of a lunatic."

"It is in the hands of a lunatic," says Alexis, making a sound you might
mistake for a laugh.  "Brett was probably the sanest of all of us, he got out. 
I should have followed while I had the chance."

Apparently giving up on his search of the bed, Jonas rounds sharply on Alexis. 
"Show me the note again."  Alexis hands him a slip of paper, which he reads
quickly and then throws into the corner.  "And he said nothing more when he
came to you?"

"I told you already.  He came in in the middle of the night, woke me, gave me
the letter, and left without saying anything."

"It is still hard for me to believe that you let him go without alerting me. 
If you hadn't waited until this morning to tell me we might have had a chance
of detaining him here."

"That's why I didn't tell you."

Finally the thin ice of the conversation cracks and Jonas violently pushes over
the dresser, shouting.  "Everything is ruined now!  If we still had the three
of us here we could have cleared things up and gone on.  It would have been
difficult, but possible.  With only the two of us here, however, we are not
enough to deal with the problems that have arisen.  We have no option but to
flee, leaving all our precious work behind in this ice bound casket!"

"There are more important things than these experiments!  What about US?" 
shouts Alexis, standing eye to eye with Jonas.  There is a pause, Jonas almost
spilling over with rage.  Alexis does not back down however, and he slowly
seems to regain his composure, his malice gone.  His lip trembles slightly, but
Alexis does not seem to notice.

"All I know are my orders now, that is all I have to go on.  To seal off Babel
and bring both of us home, unharmed."  There is another pause before the
implication settles.

"And what of David?"  Alexis asks, suddenly griping the old man's arm.

Jonas gently removes her hand and replies, "The Agency has decided, and I agree
with them, that it is not an acceptable risk to aid him.  There is no way we
can safely take him out of here, he has degenerated too far."

"What do you mean?"  asks Alexis, open-mouthed.  "All we need to do is mix the
components, radiate the anti-toxin, and administer it."

Jonas answers evenly, "We don't have the time to find out the necessary
intensity of radiation to activate it."

"It's at setting 414.  I've been testing."

"Against my direct orders?"  His irritation is readily apparent, but his
control shows that he expected this.  "Even so, there is too much risk
involved," he continues, unabashed.  "Attempting to administer the formula
while he is in this state could prove fatal, and the anti-toxin is
intrinsically unstable, it would probably degenerate by the time you could get
near him.  Moreover, have you considered how we are to get a sample of the
Telerus, since the Jabberwocky toxin has been released in the sample gallery?"

"There is a way.  There has got to be."

"Perhaps.  However, it is not a viable solution in this crisis situation. 
There is no time.  And, because I knew you would try this, you should know that
I have destroyed the key to the cabinet containing the anti-toxin base and its
formula.  It would have been too dangerous any other way.  There is no choice
now.  He too must be entombed here, with the rest of the monsters."

Alexis' eyes distort and she opens her mouth to scream.  You see her start to
lunge forward, poised to attack.  But the image, clear up to this point,
suddenly cuts off, before the sound can escape her lips.

>take note
Taken.

>read note
You can just barely make out the ghastly handwriting.  It reads:  "I cannot
bring myself to stay here an hour more.  I am taking one of the helicopters and
leaving immediately.  If you desire to join me and escape this madhouse you are
surely welcome.  Meet me by the main entrance within 30 minutes.  If you are
not there at the end of that time I must leave without you, for I fear not only
my sanity here, but my very life.  We have reached too close to the heavens and
God has struck us down.  I wish I had never begun on this path of lunacy, nor
allowed Jonas to prod me further down it once I realized the hell to which it
leads.  May God show mercy on you."

>w
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>w
Jonas' Room
   This room conveys the same hard sense of cleanliness and formal chill you've
felt in the rest of the station, despite the soft cream sheets on the bed and a
graceful, antique roll-top desk in the corner.  Next to the desk are a simple
dresser and a bookshelf.  To the south is the bathroom door, and to the east
the round room.

You notice the blotter on the desk is now glowing faintly.

>touch blotter
You feel a strong surge up your arm and the figures of Jonas, Alexis and Brett
form in the room with you, clear and well defined.  You feel tension pulling
the air and realize you're witnessing the middle of a fight.

"Exactly what are you saying?"  Brett says, taking one slow step towards Jonas.

"Don't look at me like that," he replies, staring the taller man down.  "The
decision is not mine, it never was mine."  The words aren't even out of his
mouth when Alexis explodes in rage.

"You could have at least told us!"  she shouts.  "And you were obligated to
tell David.  You have deceived him as well as Brett and me, and it could mean
his death.  You have no right to refuse him the anti-toxin!"

"I disagree, Dr. Stevansen.  I am under direct orders from the Administrative
Agency, which, unquestionably, gives me the right.  While I understand your
point, there is nothing to be done about it now, so please lower your voice." 
His tone is as solid as ice and he stares at Alexis with eyes of Arctic calm. 
Brett takes half a step back.  Alexis seethes, but holds her tongue.  "What is
imperative now," continues Jonas, "is that David must not find out what is
going on.  He is already markedly dangerous.  An inflammation such as this
could be disastrous."

Brett moves to reply, but Alexis' voice flatly cuts him off.  "And how long are
we to allow this to go on?"

"Until the toxin runs its complete course.  The tests indicate that can not be
any longer than a few weeks."

Brett speaks, nearly babbling, his panic showing through, "But if he's slid
this far in eight days, who knows what--"

He stops short as Alexis, in a voice that allows no others, asks, "And if, as
the tests suggest, complete mental breakdown or death will occur once the toxin
is allowed to run full course...?"

"Then our results will be proved and we will be able to move on with the
project."  Here Jonas pauses for argument, but none comes, the others shocked
into silence.  He calmly begins to gather together the papers on his desk. 
"So, to summarize, despite David's requests, we are not to formulate nor
administer any anti-toxin.  If his pleas do become violent we may inject a
placebo, but nothing more.  Those are our orders.  Hate me if you will, but it
is my responsibility, as leader of this project, to obey."

He turns to face Alexis but she has already started out the door, her face
slack as if anaesthetized.  "Keep a close watch on her, and report to me,"
Jonas whispers to Brett, who turns and limps out of the room.  The vision
fades.

>e
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>nw
Dining Room
   This sizable octagonal chamber is the dining/meeting room of the residential
section.  In one corner a counter and a few appliances and cabinets designate
the kitchenette.  The only other fixture in the room is a metal table with four
chairs, which seems dwarfed and isolated in the middle of the floor.  An arch
in the southeast wall leads to the round room and another door by the
kitchenette in the southwest wall leads to a storage area.

Both the kitchenette counter and the table glow blue.
   You see a calendar here.

>touch table
You press your fingers to the hard metal of the table, which flashes to life on
contact.  On each of the four sides sits one of the scientists, looking serious
and tense.  Jonas speaks, covering the tension with authority.

"As you all know, the Telerus toxin, easily the most unique and perhaps the
most astounding development to come from this lab, has finally been perfected. 
The anti-toxin too has been completed.  However, there is a major obstacle in
our path."  He looks at the faces around the table.  It is obvious they know
all this, that he is recapping for formality's sake.  "We must learn exactly
what the effects on tellurgic capacity are from this drug before we can send it
to other facilities outside this station, but we simply can not get this
information from animal testing alone.  We need to perform a human trial."  He
looks again from face to face, pacing himself.  "The Administrative Agency,
unwilling to allow a test subject to enter the Babel station, has been quite
clear regarding the necessary course of action."  Another pause.  Another look.
"I am asking, doctors, for a volunteer."

No one moves for a long moment.  Finally, his face betraying nothing, David
says, "All right.  There is no other way around it.  I'll do it."  Alexis
gasps, but he does not respond, staring straight ahead at Jonas.

Brett turns to him, his calm shattered.  "Are you insane?  Do you realize--"

"Be quiet, Dr. Owen," states Jonas, his voice pushing down the speaker, while
his eyes never leave David's.

"I will not be quiet!"  yells Brett, standing so abruptly you hear the joint of
his left leg squeak.  "Of all the cracked designs you've engaged us in--"

"Please Brett, let me talk," says David, calmly.  Brett nods, but remains
standing.  "You all know how I've dreamed to truly do something for science. 
This is my chance, finally.  Obviously, I see it's dangerous, but we all need
something that we're willing to risk our lives for.  Something we can honestly
believe in, and this is what I believe.  Please, don't take it from me.  I
volunteer."  Neither Jonas or Brett see it, but you catch in your peripheral
vision as David reaches over, under the table, and takes Alexis' hand.  Her
face staying solemn, as it has through all of this, she desperately grabs his
hand with hers.  Jonas nods, and she shudders.

"Thank you David," says Jonas, his tone flat as always.  "Everything is
prepared.  We shall begin the trial tomorrow."  His voice takes on a hint of
inflection, almost grandeur, as he continues, rising.  "What we do here will be
a boon to humanity beyond all reckoning, a marvel of true science for the
future and for the purpose of bettering mankind--"

The vision abruptly ends, the table deserted.

>se
Round Room
   Despite the blank white walls and the colorless light from the skylight
above you, this circular chamber almost seems hospitable.  The thin shag carpet
that would be an abomination in any other setting soothes your feet after the
freezing tiles of the hallway, and the air here is only cold, instead of the
bone scratching chill you were growing accustomed to in the rest of the
station.  To the north, south, east, and west are identical steel doors, each
bearing a name plate.  A pair of wide arches, the only attempt that you've seen
at form rather than function in the design of this building, lead out to the
southeast and northwest, though the second arch is blocked by a steel door.

>se
Antechamber
   This is a small diamond-shaped room that provides a transition from the
sharp, metal cold of the hall to the residential quarters beyond.  Southeast
and down a step is the entry area of the station, northwest and up a step are
the quarters for the station crew.

>se
Entry Area
   This is the southern end of a hall, which continues back to the north.  To
the east is a door with a card slot on the wall next to it, and opposite it, on
the west wall, is a much larger door, a bulkhead, which glows blue.  Next to
the bulkhead, to the northwest, is another door, smaller than the other two,
where the wall juts out slightly.  The cold here is even stronger than in the
rest of the building, and you shiver violently.

>look up babel in bible
Here it is, Genesis, 11:4.  Babel was a huge tower built to reach the very
heavens.  When God saw this, and the power of those building it, he was angered
and destroyed the tower and its makers.  Strangely, the chapter and verse
numbers have been circled.

>type "11:4" on pad
The figures flash on the small screen and you hear a hiss as the hydraulic lock
of the door unseals.

>open bulkhead
You push the door open and reel from a blast of frigid air in your face.

>w
Entry Steps
   You're standing at the base of a steeply angled stairwell which leads up to
the west towards a square of grey light.  Cold, white air seems to be sucked
through the passage from that opening to the station entrance to the east,
searing your face as it rushes past.

>w
Outside the Station
   The arctic, just past dawn, is more of a study in geometry than a landscape.
The horizon is a white line between planes of grey, stretching out, undisturbed
forever, brushed clean by the screeching wind.  You see a few bumps and ridges
in the tundra a short distance away, deformations made by the station hiding
under the frost, but the only real alteration in the horizon is a square bulk
far off to the north.  Anchoring you in this vast space is a small structure a
few steps to the east, a metal arch covering the stairs down into the station. 
Just to the southeast is also a small shed.  However, this stark imagery is all
but lost to you, nearly blinded as you are by the cold.  It attacks in many
ways; lancing at your eyes with the wind, seeping slowly into your skin to gnaw
your bones, setting blue fire to your ears and face with the beginnings of
frostbite.  The cold is everywhere, and it wants you dead.

>se
Shed
   You are standing, huddled into yourself against the cold, in a tiny metal
shed, the wind shaking the thin metal walls and pushing in around you from the
exit to the northwest.  Around you are various machine parts, oil cans, and the
like.  The walls might as well not be there, for all the protection they give
from the attack of wind.  The only piece of equipment in here that seems to
have any practical value is a large battery sitting under a shelf.  The shelf
it is under glows a faint, tell-tale blue.

>touch shelf
The air itself seems to snap as you touch the shelf.  Brett stands next to you,
returning a gas can, his face bone white with fear.  He turns to the door,
crosses himself twice, and hobbles out.  You see his left leg, an artificial
limb, is horribly mangled, causing him to walk half stooping, dragging his leg
behind as he exits.  You hear a helicopter start up and take off, then the
image is gone.

>take battery
Taken.

>nw
Outside the Station
   The arctic, just past dawn, is more of a study in geometry than a landscape.
The horizon is a white line between planes of grey, stretching out, undisturbed
forever, brushed clean by the screeching wind.  You see a few bumps and ridges
in the tundra a short distance away, deformations made by the station hiding
under the frost, but the only real alteration in the horizon is a square bulk
far off to the north.  Anchoring you in this vast space is a small structure a
few steps to the east, a metal arch covering the stairs down into the station. 
Just to the southeast is also a small shed.  However, this stark imagery is all
but lost to you, nearly blinded as you are by the cold.  It attacks in many
ways; lancing at your eyes with the wind, seeping slowly into your skin to gnaw
your bones, setting blue fire to your ears and face with the beginnings of
frostbite.  The cold is everywhere, and it wants you dead.

You rub your arms, trying to keep the blood flowing in them.

>e
Entry Steps
   You're standing at the base of a steeply angled stairwell which leads up to
the west towards a square of grey light.  Cold, white air seems to be sucked
through the passage from that opening to the station entrance to the east,
searing your face as it rushes past.

>e
Entry Area
   This is the southern end of a hall, which continues back to the north.  To
the east is a door with a card slot on the wall next to it, and opposite it, on
the west wall, is a much larger door, a bulkhead, which glows blue.  Next to
the bulkhead, to the northwest, is another door, smaller than the other two,
where the wall juts out slightly.  The cold here is even stronger than in the
rest of the building, and you shiver violently.

>n
South Hall
   This hall extends far to the north and south, illuminated by white lights
bright enough to make your head throb.  To the east is the communications room.

>n
Center
   Three halls, to the north, south, and east, converge here.  Each hall is
framed with an identical metal door frame.  Identical except for the east
hall's door, which glows slightly.

>e
East Hall
   Your nose is bitten by the scent of cleaning alcohol, present in all the
halls, and especially here.  The stainless corridor continues to the east and
west.

>e
East End
   You're standing at the eastern extremity of an abandoned hall, which
continues back to the west.  A flashing red beacon on the bulkhead at the east
end of the hall screams over the subtle blue glow of the door, but the warning
does little good, as the door has been blocked open with a pole.  To the north
is another door, with a card slot next to it.

>e
Gallery Junction
   This smallish chamber is apparently a junction of hallways and rooms. 
Through a sliding glass door on the east wall you see a huge, dark room.  A
second sliding glass door, glowing with faint blue fire, is to the south, but a
large warning flashes over it.  Next to each of the glass doors is a card slot,
identical to the ones in the halls.  To the west is a large bulkhead, propped
open with a metal pole, and flashing a red warning beacon similar to one on the
south door.  An open passage leads north.  The only other feature of the room
besides the doors is a small recess on the east wall.

>wear suit
Okay, you're now wearing the radiation suit.

>put ID card in south slot
The door slides open and you remove the card.

>s
As you step into the small room, you notice an open vial on the floor marked
"Jabberwocky Toxin:  DANGER--FATAL".  That must have been the cause of the
warning lights.  You make sure your suit is carefully sealed, and look around.

Toxin Gallery
   This room is quite dim, illuminated only by red lights above and the light
coming through the glass door to the north, the room's only exit.  Inset in the
walls are row upon row of brackets, holding small glass vials, scores of them,
which glitter like stars in the artificial night of the room.  Large glass
panels slide on tracks over the brackets to protect the fragile-looking
objects.  One open section of brackets, right in front of you, is surrounded by
a sort of metal frame to set it off from the rest.

>l at frame
Among the rows of vials is a prominent section containing about twelve brackets
and surrounded by a frame to separate it from the rest.  The frame is engraved
with the words "CURRENT PROJECTS".  In the framed section there is only one
vial, marked "Telerus Toxin".

>take telerus vial
Taken.

>n
(Opening the door)
Gallery Junction
   This smallish chamber is apparently a junction of hallways and rooms. 
Through a sliding glass door on the east wall you see a huge, dark room.  A
second sliding glass door, glowing with faint blue fire, is to the south, but a
large warning flashes over it.  Next to each of the glass doors is a card slot,
identical to the ones in the halls.  To the west is a large bulkhead, propped
open with a metal pole, and flashing a red warning beacon similar to one on the
south door.  An open passage leads north.  The only other feature of the room
besides the doors is a small recess on the east wall.

>l at recess
A transparent panel with the words "POL. FILTERS ALIGNMENT" etched on it covers
the small recess next to the east door.  In the recess are three colored
sliders which can be set to positions marked 1, 2, and 3.  The red slider is
currently set at 1, the green slider at 1, and the blue slider at 2.  Below the
recess is a small, blinking button.

>press button
The transparent door over the sliders moves away into the wall.

>set red slider to 3
Okay, it's now set to 3.  As you slide the switch into position, the polarizing
filters on the dome in the gallery open, filling the room with dazzling light
that washes through the glass door of the gallery into the junction.

>put id card in east slot
The door slides open and you remove the card.

>e
Terran Gallery
   You are standing on a circular metal walkway midway between the floor and
ceiling of a vast, cylindrical room.  Staircases down to the floor and up to
another walkway curve along the walls to your left and your right, and a
sliding glass door leads west into the hall.  Easily the most stunning thing
about the room is the light, which cascades down from above and trickles over
the matrices of glass and steel that make up the walls.  Looking closer, you
see that these are cages; hundreds of cages of every size and geometry.  Most
appear empty, but some have their odd inmates.  You see both recognizable lab
animals, like rabbits and dogs, as well as other creatures.  You stare at
slithering shadows from out of your nightmares and blue balls of fur huddled in
clusters.  All the creatures seem to be emaciated and ill from neglect.  You
realize that those you thought were only sleeping are probably dead.

>u
Avian Gallery
   The cages here bend up towards the large dome of the ceiling, and appear to
be made for flying creatures.  This is an aviary out of a twisted dream:  pale
dactylic creatures, as large as a man, scratch about their empty cages, while a
dozen violet hummingbirds lie dead in their adjacent cubicle.  You notice that
the railing along the walkway here flickers pale blue in one spot.  A staircase
curves down to the mid-level, and the door to one large cage hangs open to the
north.

>touch spot
As you touch the railing and experience a mild shock, there is a subtle shift
in the room.  The light softens from morning to evening glow, the birds in
their cages flit gracefully from branch to branch.  A nightingale sings. 
Across the room from you, David and Alexis stand, hand in hand, gazing through
the dome.

"What if we had wings, David?"  murmurs Alexis.  "Silver angel wings, to fly
into that cold night.  Leave all this behind us."

"Why?"  he asks, looking down to her.  "What do you want to leave behind?"

"The fear," she says, staring into the sky.  "Haven't you noticed it here?"

"You've been listening to Brett again, haven't you?"  chides David.  His voice
is gentle, but there is a harsh edge to it.  "Of course I'm afraid.  There are
nights I wake up in the dark and stare at the walls in terror."  He sighs and
gazes up into the appearing stars.  "But," he says, "There are truths that must
be dealt with and we were chosen to be here because we can handle that
responsibility."  He kisses her slowly, and the room fades back to the glaring
morning, the singing nightingale dead in her cage.

>n
Cage
   You peer cautiously around the open cage, trying not to breathe the musky,
rotting air.  Matted hair covers the ground, and lying in one corner, is a
large, shadowy bulk.  You make out a mass of wings covering the heap and
realize it is the dead body of whatever creature lived in this cage.  Judging
by the bones and dark stains on the floor, it was a carnivore.  To the south is
the door of the cage, smashed open, next to which is a large bowl of water.

>clean flask
(with the bowl of water)
You rinse and polish the flask clean.

>s
Avian Gallery
   The cages here bend up towards the large dome of the ceiling, and appear to
be made for flying creatures.  This is an aviary out of a twisted dream:  pale
dactylic creatures, as large as a man, scratch about their empty cages, while a
dozen violet hummingbirds lie dead in their adjacent cubicle.  You notice that
the railing along the walkway here flickers pale blue in one spot.  A staircase
curves down to the mid-level, and the door to one large cage hangs open to the
north.

>d
Terran Gallery
   You are standing on a circular metal walkway midway between the floor and
ceiling of a vast, cylindrical room.  Staircases down to the floor and up to
another walkway curve along the walls to your left and your right, and a
sliding glass door leads west into the hall.  Easily the most stunning thing
about the room is the light, which cascades down from above and trickles over
the matrices of glass and steel that make up the walls.  Looking closer, you
see that these are cages; hundreds of cages of every size and geometry.  Most
appear empty, but some have their odd inmates.  You see both recognizable lab
animals, like rabbits and dogs, as well as other creatures.  You stare at
slithering shadows from out of your nightmares and blue balls of fur huddled in
clusters.  All the creatures seem to be emaciated and ill from neglect.  You
realize that those you thought were only sleeping are probably dead.

>d
Aquatic Gallery
   You are standing at the bottom of a large, well-like room, its shimmering
walls stretching to a shining dome far above.  The walls here are made not of
cages but tanks, filled with water and other liquids.  This is not a normal
aquarium however, for among the familiar anemones are other creatures, half
organic and half mechanical by their looks.  A stairway curves up past a dark
tank to the level above.

In the center of the floor you see a faint patch of blue light.

>touch patch
As you come in contact with the strangely shaped patch of light, it resolves
itself into a spreading pool of dark liquid, then fades altogether.  From far
above you, you hear voices in heated argument.  Though the voices are garbled
horribly, you recognize the metal monotone of the first speaker as Jonas.  You
don't think you've ever heard the second speaker.

"And just what," says Jonas, "do you intend on doing, Dr. Thorne?  Disregarding
direct orders from the Administration Agency?"

"Jonas, what you are suggesting is not only completely amoral, it is
fundamentally against natural law."

"It is a direct order.  We are not to judge such things, only to carry them
out."

"I've had enough of just carrying things out.  Listen to Brett for once.  We've
developed things here that could wreak absolute chaos on mankind.  It has to
stop somewhere, and human tests for the Telerus toxin, which we haven't even
perfected yet, will be that line for me."

"Will it now?"  Silence falls down the shaft.  "In that case, it is my absolute
duty to this project, and to the Administrative Agency, to replace you with
someone who will be more conducive to our goals."

"You don't have that power."

"Don't I?"  There is the sound of a sudden struggle, muffled in static, and
then a scream as a man's shadow plummets through the light of the dome, and
fades out just before it smashes into the steel floor.

>u
Terran Gallery
   You are standing on a circular metal walkway midway between the floor and
ceiling of a vast, cylindrical room.  Staircases down to the floor and up to
another walkway curve along the walls to your left and your right, and a
sliding glass door leads west into the hall.  Easily the most stunning thing
about the room is the light, which cascades down from above and trickles over
the matrices of glass and steel that make up the walls.  Looking closer, you
see that these are cages; hundreds of cages of every size and geometry.  Most
appear empty, but some have their odd inmates.  You see both recognizable lab
animals, like rabbits and dogs, as well as other creatures.  You stare at
slithering shadows from out of your nightmares and blue balls of fur huddled in
clusters.  All the creatures seem to be emaciated and ill from neglect.  You
realize that those you thought were only sleeping are probably dead.

>w
(Opening the door)
Gallery Junction
   This smallish chamber, apparently a junction of hallways and rooms, is
filled with light which washes in from a sliding glass door to the east. 
Through this door you see a huge, sparkling room.  A second sliding glass door,
glowing with faint blue fire, is to the south, but a large warning flashes over
it.  Next to each of the glass doors is a card slot, identical to the ones in
the halls.  To the west is a large bulkhead, propped open with a metal pole,
and flashing a red warning beacon similar to one on the south door.  An open
passage leads north.  The only other feature of the room besides the doors is a
small recess on the east wall.

>n
Hall
   This is another empty hall of steel and tile, identical to the others in its
cold construction.  It continues to the north and ends in a junction to the
south.  Due perhaps to the utter silence in the hall, or simply the unbearable
cold worming up through your feet, you find yourself, without thinking, walking
on your tiptoes here.

>n
Lab Entrance
   At this end of the hall are a pair of large, swinging doors which lead
north.  Through portholes in the doors, you can see an odd collection of
scientific and medical equipment.  A smaller door is set in the east wall and
the hall continues to the south.

>n
Lab Hall III
   You are standing at the eastern end of a long vaulted room filled with
scientific equipment:  the lab hall, the heart of the Babel station.  A large
steel table here, identical to other tables farther down the hall, is half
covered with various instruments and papers in a jumbled mess.  A portion of
the table is cleared except for three small cages, which glow blue.  Against
the north wall is a white metal cabinet and swinging double doors in the south
wall lead out of the lab.  A smaller door is to the east, while the lab hall
continues to the west.

>e
Medical Alcove
   The dominating element of this small cube is the color white.  The walls are
white, the stiff bed by the east wall is covered in white sheets, and the
counter sticking out of the wall in the corner looks as though it were carved
from snow.  Even the air smells as if it has been scoured bare.  Enameled doors
lead to the south and west.

The only hint of color in the room is the large sink set into the counter,
which glows a silky blue.

>touch sink
There's a sharp tingle in your fingers, and you see that the sink is now filled
with water.  Brett stands right next to you, drying his trembling hands while
David, in a loose hospital gown, sits on the bed, with Alexis to one side. 
Jonas is facing him, talking low.

"You mustn't be afraid, David," he says.  "We have everything planned out, as
you know.  After the toxin is introduced, you will continue a light series of
duties here, while we watch your reaction over time, and test your tellurgic
abilities."  He pauses, as David's eyes are drawn to Brett, who wordlessly
fills a syringe from a vial marked "TELERUS TOXIN."  Jonas continues,
commanding David's attention.  "We are all aware of the potential dangers of
this, it's no use denying that.  However, as it will only take a matter of
minutes to formulate the anti-toxin when it's needed, and we have planned for
every possible reaction to the toxin, the danger has been minimized to a
fraction.  Think of the boon you'll be giving to mankind.  The ability to see
the past, to--"

Brett steps forward silently.  Jonas stops.  All is ready.  David holds out his
left arm for the needle.  Alexis grasps his right hand, tight, a movement which
Jonas coldly ignores.  You see Alexis try to get David to look at her, but his
eyes are caught on something in Brett's eyes that you can't see.  The needle
sinks in and you feel a pain in your left arm.  The memory of the sting.  The
image fades.

>w
Lab Hall III
   You are standing at the eastern end of a long vaulted room filled with
scientific equipment:  the lab hall, the heart of the Babel station.  A large
steel table here, identical to other tables farther down the hall, is half
covered with various instruments and papers in a jumbled mess.  A portion of
the table is cleared except for three small cages, which glow blue.  Against
the north wall is a white metal cabinet and swinging double doors in the south
wall lead out of the lab.  A smaller door is to the east, while the lab hall
continues to the west.

>open battery with screwdriver
You pry the top corner of the battery back, revealing the greenish acid inside.

>pour acid on hinges
The acid eats away the flimsy hinges, and soon the door of the cabinet falls to
the side, swinging from the still sturdy lock.  In the safe are some notes, a
glowing shelf, and the base vial.

>take base vial
Taken.

You hear a distant, metallic voice say, "Warning.  Main Power Supply Low."

>touch shelf
As you bend and touch the metal shelf, you instantly see two people in your
periphery.  Without standing up, fearing it would disrupt the image, you can
make out Jonas' angled frame to your left and David's smaller one to your
right.  His hands are down, holding the vial and the notes that were in the
cabinet when you first opened it.  You notice the cabinet door is back on its
hinges.

"Well, that's basically all there is," says David, shuffling slowly through his
notes.  "We've perfected the Telerus toxin, and all the anti-toxin needs is to
combine this base with a sample of the toxin and radiate it--I'll figure out at
what level tomorrow--and that too will be done."

"Do I detect displeasure in your voice, Dr. Telurien?"  asks Jonas.

"In a way, yes," says David, putting the base and the notes in the cabinet and
shutting the door, which passes through your bent body without any effect. 
"I'm upset that we won't see it go any farther.  If the Administrative Agency
won't send a subject for human tests, which they may be justified in doing, all
this development will have been a dead end."

"At my behest, the Agency is reconsidering human testing.  With the anti-toxin
now completed, they may allow it.  And even if not, they are still greatly
interested in the capabilities of the Telerus.  We shall continue on.  One way
or another."  He slides the lock solidly into the rings on the cabinet and the
vision is gone, the cabinet door hanging open again.

>open telerus vial and base vial
Telerus vial:  Opened.
base vial:  Opened.

>pour telerus and base into flask
Telerus toxin:  Done.
anti-toxin base:  Done.

>mix telerus with base
The Telerus toxin and the anti-toxin base bubble violently as they are
combined.  The reaction lasts only a few seconds, creating the inactive Telerus
anti-toxin.

>close flask
Closed.

>w
Lab Hall II
   This is the center of a large, grey hall; something like a cross between a
hospital operating room and a chemistry lab.  Along the north wall is a bank of
dark computers, while what you think is an electron microscope sits next to the
south wall, silently glowing blue.  In the center of the room is another large
metal table, covered with balances, tubes and scales.  The lab extends away to
the east and west.

>w
Lab Hall I
   You are standing at the far western end of the lab hall, which runs back
east.  A heavy bulkhead dominates the southwest corner of the room, while a
staircase along the south wall leads down.  In the middle of the room, two
steel tables have been pushed together to form a larger surface, apparently
used for dissection.  At the moment, two frogs lay opened on the table, the
formaldehyde barely keeping away the dying scent of decay.  Over the rest of
the table are various dissecting implements and a pair of simple microscopes
that are glowing blue.
   You see an amber marked syringe here.

>d
Landing
   Despite the fluorescent tubes set into the walls, this landing on the
staircase seems quite dark.  Stairs go both up and down from this landing, and
a door leads west.

>w
Changing Room
   This is a drab, low-ceilinged rectangle, its west end becoming an open
shower area, its east end bearing a heavy steel door.  A metal bench runs along
the north side of the room, while on the opposite wall are steel clothing
hooks.  The scent of sweat and water sticks in the corners of the room, at once
familiar and squalid.

Oddly, the bench is shining in the dim light.

>touch bench
You touch the bench, the shock so usual by now that you hardly notice it, and
in the room with you are Brett and David, slipping out of silver radiation
suits into their lab uniforms.  Then, something happens.  Out of the blue,
without a sound, David crumples to the ground, his lab coat spread around him
on the floor.

"Are you okay?"  asks Brett, kneeling, frantic.  It seems this is not the first
time this has happened.  David does not reply, at least for a moment.  Then,
the growling begins.  It seems to come from David's body but its deep, manic
resonance is not human.  Brett begins to back towards the door, his shirt still
unbuttoned.  "David... David?"

For a moment there is silence, then David jerks back, his hands over his eyes,
screaming.  The sound is amplified by the odd acoustics of the room and you
reach up instinctively to cover your ears from the inhuman sound, but it
continues on inside your head, unchanged.  The scream seems to go on far longer
than could be possible, then David collapses again, heaving and growling.

Frozen, Brett crouches, one hand on the door.  "God have mercy, for we have
sinned.  The tower is falling, we have--" He does not finish, as David, his
eyes dilated and twisted, lunges at the other scientist.  With frantic speed,
Brett scurries out, slamming the steel door.  David hits it direct, hard, and
slumps to the ground.  "What is happening to me?  Oh my God, what is
happening?"  And then the room is empty.

>e
Landing
   Despite the fluorescent tubes set into the walls, this landing on the
staircase seems quite dark.  Stairs go both up and down from this landing, and
a door leads west.

>d
Radiation Area
   This room is an elongated oval, with a staircase leading up at one end and a
glass hatch at the other.  Rather than the fluorescent tubes you've seen in the
rest of the station, the room is lit by incandescent bulbs, each surrounded by
a mesh cage.  Many of these bulbs have burned out, leaving the room prey to
milky shadows.  The room is empty except for a large, slanted control panel
near the steps.

>open hatch
Opened.

>put flask in chamber
Done.

>close hatch
Closed.

>flip switch
You flip the switch and a hissing noise comes from the hatch.

>put green card in slot
Done.  As you insert the card, there is a loud hissing noise as two panels of
Plexiglas slide over the hatch at the other end of the room.

>set dial to 414
Okay, it's now turned to 414.

>press radiation button
You hear a loud humming noise and a sharp light pierces the room from behind
the hatch.  In a moment it fades and a mechanical voice says, "Radiation
complete."

>press blue button
As you press the button, you hear a hiss and see the glass door mist up.

>flip switch
You flip the switch and a hissing noise comes from the hatch.

>take green card
Taken.  As you remove the card from the slot, the Plexiglas panels over the
hatch slide slowly back into the walls.

>open hatch
Opened.

>take flask
You take the flask out of the chamber, and stare at the emerald liquid inside. 
This is the anti-toxin, the cure.

>open flask
Opened.

>pour cure into syringe
Done.

>inject cure
You look warily at the fluid in the syringe.  Is this indeed the solution, the
cure which will return you to your normal self and give you back your memories?
Or is it possible that you've missed a step in the formulation, overlooked some
necessary compound?  There is only one way to find out.  Not noticing the pain,
you push the needle into your arm and depress the plunger.


Immediately, an itching fire starts spreading along your arm.  It flows through
your bloodstream towards your head, burning nerves as it travels.  You sense it
coming, know it will reach your brain in a matter of minutes.  You feel it
slowly explode through your chest, and then your neck.  Minutes lengthen, and
then your eyes begin to fade.  The pain, coursing through your body, is
numbing.  You feel an itching darkness come, and the ground pulls you towards
it.  Darkness.








Darkness.  You hear a voice talking to someone miles away.  The voice whispers,
"Main power supply failing.  Switching to auxiliary power supply.  Switching to
auxiliary power supply."  The pain is not gone.






Darkness.  But it is a different darkness; colder but without suffering.  One
by one, you feel yourself opening eyes within you.  Memories tip-toe back. 
Your revolutionary treatise on biological memory.  Your invitation to work
here, at this mysterious and wonderful place.  Your meeting Alexis, and falling
in love with her gentle hands and honeyed hair.  The need for the human trial,
the volunteering.  The nightmare.  Your slow loss of memories, sanity.  Blocks
of black time that you could not recall, periods of uncontrollable anger and
power.  Being locked in your room.  Sneaking out.  Releasing the Jabberwocky in
a wild, mindless fit.  Hiding, half mad, half starved.  Something else...




Darkness, but your eyes are open.  The floor is hard and cold with reality.  It
takes all your strength to return to your feet in the gloom.  The power must
have gone off again.  You breathe slowly.  You look over your body, familiar
now.  You are yourself again, sane and safe.  But you are still abandoned
somewhere in the Arctic.  What now?


>u
Landing
   The darkness floods down like water from above and puddles at the bottom of
the stairs below you.  By memory you know that staircases from here lead up and
down.

>u
Lab Hall I
   The room is high and overflowing with darkness.  The hall continues off to
the east.  You feel its vastness and shiver in the darkness.  To the southwest
a small, flashing, green light next to the bulkhead periodically pricks the
blackness.
   You see an amber marked syringe here.

>sw
You step through the door into the north end of the main hall, where you first
woke up.  The power off, it seems darker now than before.  However, your eye
falls on the bulky lock on the north door.  At the sight, a fragment of memory
returns to you.  You remember lying on the floor, looking up, as the door swung
closed and a pattern of colored lights flashed on the device.  A moment later
you were unconscious.  With eerie clarity, you remember the sequence of lights,
and press the colored buttons in that pattern.  The lock falls aside, and the
door swings open.

North End
   The cold air gushing in from the north fills you with a sense of dread and
urgency.  Behind the north door is a ladder leading up, and some vague memory
impels you to climb.

>u
Courtyard
   You clamber up the ladder against the rush of grey wind.  Midway up, you
stop, clinging to the rungs with white knuckles.  Your mind reels as if it were
falling into itself.  Part of you feels pushed onward toward the top, nagged on
by the edge of memory.  But that same urge makes your stomach turn in fear and
revulsion.  What is it?  The memory itself escapes you.  You've come this far
though.  You plow upward into the light.

You come out into a courtyard, surrounded by high cinderblock walls and filled
with sun reflected off the white ground.  You shudder with relief when you see
in the center of the small enclosure a sleek black helicopter.  A way out. 
Relief does not last long.  You glimpse in the corner of your eye a shape on
the ground.  No, two shapes.  Prostrate on the earth.  Sick blue grey with
frost.  Chests covered in something matted dark brown and black.  You can not
make out the faces under the ice forming there, but you know who they are.  The
last memory oozes into focus.


Anger.  Such uncontrollable anger.  And power with it, like you'd never known. 
They poisoned you.  They locked you in your room.  Left you to die.  But you
got out.  You would get even.  You waited, you hid, you listened.  Brett left. 
But Jonas was still here.  Jonas who must die.  You listened.  They were about
to escape, Alexis had gone to the courtyard, Jonas to turn off the power.  You
climbed up the ladder.

How could you have forgotten the look on her face when you came up into the
yard?  Her bottomless brown eyes, crushed with emotion.  Confusion, pity, love,
terror.  She half gasped, half cried, but no sound came out.  Only now do you
realize what you must have looked like to her.  Your clothes torn and dirty,
reeking with furious sweat.  Your posture more simian than human, and your
eyes, dilated so crazily that their white was hardly visible any more.  But her
revulsion confused you then, wild as you were with anger and insanity.  Why did
she look at you like that?  Where was the love, the warm embrace?  Why were
there tears?  Then she screamed, clearly this time.  Why?  Why did she scream? 
You heard panting behind you.  Jonas came into the yard.  His whole body shook
when he saw you.  He nearly fell back down the ladder.  But he did not.  He was
here now.  And he must die.

You leapt.  There were more screams.  You did not hear them.  He ran, but could
not run.  You pinned him and pummeled his chest until it caved in.  His eyes
bulged.  Blood ran.  She was still screaming.  And crying.  Louder and louder. 
Why?  Why?  Louder.  Why?  Her face was crazed.  Terrified.  You walked over to
her.  She did not stop crying.  Why?  You hit her to make her stop.  It got
louder.  You hit her again.  And again.  And again.  She stopped.  It was
quiet.  You took a few steps back.  You did not see the opening.  You fell down
the well and out into the hall.  You were hurt.  Before you went into darkness,
an draft blew the door closed.  Lights flashed.  Darkness.


You find yourself on the ground, your hands against your ears, the tears cold
as acid on your cheeks.  This is what it came to.  At your hand.  Slowly you
stand, trying hard not to look at the bodies.  The keys are in the helicopter,
and you turn them mechanically.  You realize that you are gasping for breath. 
A distant part of your mind explains you are probably going into shock.  You
turn on the guidance system and drift upwards from the yard.  You feel the
machine turn and head south, away from the fallen ruins of Babel.


You have finished Babel

In a total of 217 turns, you have achieved a score of 22 points out of a
possible 25.

You may restore a saved game, start over, quit, or undo the current command.
Please enter RESTORE, RESTART, QUIT, or UNDO:  >